ome time within the first quarter of the present nineteenth century, a
little old lady--some people would even have called her a dear little
old lady--sat one afternoon in a high-backed chair beside a cottage
window, from which might be had a magnificent view of Sicilian rocks,
with the Mediterranean beyond.

This little old lady was so pleasant in all respects that an adequate
description of her is an impossibility.  Her mouth was a perfect study.
It was not troubled with anything in the shape of teeth.  It lay between
a delicate little down-turned nose and a soft little up-turned chin,
which two seemed as if anxious to meet in order to protect it.  The
wrinkles that surrounded that mouth were innumerable, and each wrinkle
was a distinct and separate smile; so that, whether pursing or
expanding, it was at all times rippling with an expression of tender
benignity.

This little old lady plays no part in our tale; nevertheless she merits
passing introduction as being the grandmother of our hero, a Sicilian
youth of nineteen, who, at the time we write of, sat on a stool at her
feet engaged in earnest conversation.

"Grandmother," said the youth in a perplexed mood, "why won't you let
_me_ go into the Church instead of brother Lucien?  I'm certain that he
does not want to, though he is fit enough, as far as education goes, and
goodness; but you know well enough that he is desperately fond of
Juliet, and she is equally desperate about him, and nothing could be
more pleasant than that they should get married."

"Tut, child, you talk nonsense," said the old lady, letting a sigh
escape from the rippling mouth.  "Your father's dearest wish has always
been to see Lucien enter the Church, and although Juliet is our adopted
child, we do not intend to interfere with the wishes of her uncle the
abbot, who has offered to place her in the convent of Saint Shutemup.
As to you taking Lucien's place,"--here the mouth expanded
considerably--"ah!  Mariano, you are too foolish, too giddy; better
fitted to be a sailor or soldier I should think--"

"How!" interrupted Mariano.  "Do you then estimate the profession of the
soldier and sailor so low, that you think only foolish and giddy fellows
are fit for it?"

"Not so, child; but it is a school which is eminently fitted to teach
respect and obedience to foolish and giddy fellows who are pert to their
grandmothers."

"Ah! how unfair," exclaimed Mariano, with assumed solemnity; "I give you
good advice, with gravity equal to that of any priest, and yet you call
me pert.  Grandmother, you are ungrateful as well as unjust.  Have I not
been good to you all my life?"

"You have, my child," said the little old lady; "very good--also rather
troublesome, especially in the way of talking nonsense, and I'm sorry to
find that although your goodness continues, your troublesomeness does
not cease!"

"Well, well," replied the youth, with a sprightly toss of the head,
"Lucien and I shall enjoy at least a few weeks more of our old life on
the blue sea before he takes to musty books and I to the stool of the
clerk.  Ah, why did you allow father to give us a good education?  How
much more enjoyable it would have been to have lived the free life of a
fisherman--or of that pig," he said, pointing to one which had just
strayed into the garden and lain down to roll in the earth--"what happy
ignorance or ignorant happiness; what concentrated enjoyment of the
present, what perfect oblivion as to the past, what obvious disregard of
the future--"

"Ay," interrupted the little old lady, "what blissful ignorance of the
deeds of ancient heroes, of the noble achievements of great and good
men, of the adventures of Marco Polo, and Magellan, and Vasco de Gama,
over whose voyages you have so often and so fondly pored."

"I see, grandmother, that it is useless to argue with you.  Let us turn
to a graver subject.  Tell me, what am I to bring you from Malta?  As
this is in very truth to be our last voyage, I must bring you something
grand, something costly.--Ah, here comes Juliet to help us to decide."

As he spoke a pretty dark-eyed girl of nineteen entered the room and
joined their council, but before they had gone very deep into the
question which Mariano had propounded, they were interrupted by the
entrance of the head of the house, Francisco Rimini, a strong portly man
of about fifty years of age, with a brown, healthy complexion, grizzled
locks, a bald pate, and a semi-nautical gait.  He was followed by a
stranger, and by his eldest son, Lucien--a tall, grave, slender youth of
twenty-three, who was in many respects the opposite of his brother
Mariano, physically as well as mentally.  The latter was middle-sized,
broad-shouldered, and very powerful, with short curly brown hair,
flashing eyes and sprightly disposition--active as a kitten, and rather
mischievous.  Lucien was grave, gentle, and studious; elegantly rather
than powerfully formed, and disposed rather to enjoy fun by looking on
than engaging in it.  Both brothers, as well as their father, possessed
kindly dispositions and resolute spirits.

"Mother," said Francisco, "let me introduce to you my friend Signor
Bacri, a merchant who goes in my vessel as a passenger to Malta.  He
dines with us to-day; and that reminds me that you must hasten our
dinner, as events have transpired which oblige me to set sail two hours
earlier than I had intended; so please expedite matters, Juliet."

The stranger bowed with Oriental dignity to the little old lady, and,
seating himself by her side, entered into conversation.

Bacri was a middle-aged man of magnificent appearance.  From the cast of
his features it was easy to perceive that he was of Jewish extraction,
and his proportions might have been compared to those of the ancient
enemy of his nation, Goliath.  Like Saul, he was a head and shoulders
higher than ordinary men, yet he evidently placed no confidence in his
physical strength, for although his countenance was grave and his
expression dignified, he stooped a good deal, as though to avoid
knocking his head against ceilings and beams, and was singularly humble
and unobtrusive in his manners.  There was a winning softness, too, in
his voice and in his smile, which went far to disarm that distrust of,
and antipathy to, his race which prevailed in days of old, and
unfortunately prevails still, to some extent, in Christendom.

With the activity of a good housewife, Juliet expedited the operations
of the cook; dinner was served in good time; Francisco, who was owner of
his vessel and cargo, as well as padrone or captain, entertained Bacri
with accounts of his adventures on the sea, which the Jew returned in
kind with his experiences of mercantile transactions in savage lands.
Mariano drank in all that they said with youthful avidity, and the
little old lady's mouth rippled responsive, like the aspen leaf to the
breeze; while Lucien and Juliet, thus left to themselves, had no other
resource than to entertain each other as best they could!

Then the adieux were said, the voyagers went down to the port, embarked
on board their good ship--a trim-built schooner--and set sail with a
fair wind.

"I wish I saw them all safe back again!" said the little old lady, with
a sigh.

Juliet said nothing, though she echoed the sigh.

Meanwhile the schooner leant over to the breeze, and ere night-fall left
the shores of Sicily far behind.



CHAPTER TWO.

UNFOLDS A LITTLE OF THE TALE.

Another and a very different vessel chanced to be floating in those seas
at the time the Sicilian trader set sail.  At a distance she might have
been mistaken for a fishing-boat, for she carried only two lateen sails,
of that high triangular form which may still be seen in the
Mediterranean and on the lakes of Switzerland.  In reality, however, the
vessel was of greater dimensions than even the largest boat, and her
main-mast with its sail was of gigantic proportions.  She was also
full-decked, and several pieces of heavy ordnance pointed their black
muzzles from port-holes in her bulwarks.

No one could have mistaken her character as a vessel of war, for,
besides the guns referred to, she had an unusually large crew of bronzed
and stalwart men.  Their costume, as well as their arms, told that these
were of Eastern origin.  Although there was much variety in detail, they
all wore the same gold-laced jackets, the same loose Turkish drawers
gathered in below the knees, and broad silken scarfs round their waists,
with richly chased silver-mounted pistols and yataghans or curved
swords.  Some wore the turban, others the blue-tasselled red fez or
tarbouch of Tunis, while a few contented themselves with a kerchief tied
loosely round their heads.

One, who appeared to be the captain of the vessel, stood near the
steersman, leaning on the bulwarks, and scanning the horizon with a
telescope.  His costume was similar to that of his men, but of richer
material.

"It is certainly a sail," said he whom we have styled the captain to one
who stood by his side, and might have been his lieutenant or mate.

"She bears sou'-west, I think," replied the latter.

"So much the better," returned the captain; "let her fall off a little--
so, steady.  If this wind holds for half an hour we shall get well
abreast of her, and then--"

The captain shut up the telescope with an emphatic bang, by way of
termination to his remark, and, turning on his heel, paced the deck
rapidly by the side of his mate.

"We have been unlucky hitherto," he observed; "perchance fortune may
change and now be favourable.  At all events, we shall be ready.  See,
the breeze freshens.  Go, call up the men and clear for action."

The breeze had indeed been freshening while he spoke, and now came down
in a series of squalls that caused the piratical-looking craft to lie
over as if she were about to capsize.  The vessel which they were
pursuing also bent over to the breeze and crowded all sail; for well did
Francisco, its owner and padrone, know, from past experience, that
Algerine corsairs were fast sailers, and that his only hope lay in
showing them his heels!  He had often given them the slip before--why
should he not again?

While thus doing his best to escape, however, the bluff merchant did not
neglect to make preparations for defence.

"Clear away the big gun," he said to Mariano, who acted as his first
officer, Lucien being the scrivano or supercargo of the vessel; "'tis a
good piece, and has turned the flight of many a pirate with its first
bark."

The latter part of this remark was addressed to Bacri, who stood,
leaning over the taffrail, looking anxiously at the vessel in chase.

"If it be Sidi Hassan," muttered the Jew half aloud, "there is little
chance--"

"What say you?" demanded Francisco.

"I say that if it be the vessel of a man whom I happen to know, you will
have to trust to your sails for deliverance--fighting will be of no
avail."

Francisco looked at the Jew with some surprise, not unmingled with
contempt.

"A warlike spirit, it seems, does not always consort with a powerful
frame," he said; "but how come you to have scraped acquaintance with
these pirates, whose existence is a blight upon the commerce of the
Mediterranean, and a disgrace to our age?"

"None should know better than thyself that a trader, like any other
traveller, becomes acquainted with strange bedfellows," replied Bacri,
with a quiet smile.  "As to a warlike spirit, of what use would it be in
a despised Israelite to display such?"

"There is truth in that," returned the padrone in a more respectful
tone; "nevertheless, if fighting becomes needful, I trust that one
furnished with such thews and sinews will not fail to lend effective
aid."

"That he will not, I dare say; and here is a cutlass for him, wherewith
to carve a name and fame," said Mariano, coming aft at the moment and
presenting the weapon to Bacri, who took it with a half-humorous smile,
and laid it on the seat beside him.

"Hast got the big gun ready, boy?" demanded Francisco.

"Ay--loaded her almost to the muzzle.  I ordered her to be
double-shotted, and that big black rascal Manqua slily crammed in a
handful of nails without leave.  I only hope she won't burst."

"Burst!" exclaimed the padrone, with a laugh; "if you were to load her
even beyond the muzzle she wouldn't burst.  I remember once loading her
with a full dose of canister, and clapped two round shot on the top of
that, after which the same negro you have mentioned, (for he has a
tendency in that way), shoved in a handspike without orders, and let the
whole concern fly at a pirate boat, which it blew clean out of the
water: she well-nigh burst the drums of our ears on that occasion, but
showed no sign whatever of bursting herself."

"Nevertheless," said Bacri earnestly, "I advise you to trust entirely to
your sails."

"We haven't another stitch of canvas to set," said Francisco in reply;
"and if we had, the old schooner couldn't stand it, for, as you may see,
the strain is already as much as she can bear."

This was indeed the case, for the vessel was by that time flying before
a stiff breeze, with all the sail set that she could carry, while the
water dashed in clouds from her bows, and rushed over her lee bulwarks.

But the sailing powers of the pirate-vessel were superior to those of
the trading schooner.  In a short time she was close alongside, and
fired a shot across her bows to cause her to heave-to.  This, however,
the determined skipper resolved not to do.  In reply he sent on board
the pirates the varied contents of the big gun, which cut the halyards
of their smaller sail, and brought it down on the deck.  This result was
celebrated by a hearty cheer from the schooner's crew.  The pirates, in
return, discharged a broadside which cut away the foremast of the
schooner, thus rendering escape impossible.

"Now, men," cried Francisco, when the disaster occurred, "you must this
day make your choice--victory or slavery--for there is no mercy in the
breasts of these scoundrels."

He waited for no reply, but at once sprang to the big gun, which had
been re-loaded with a charge so miscellaneous that the sable Manqua
grinned with satisfaction as he endeavoured to ram it home.

Meanwhile Mariano and Lucien placed the men, who were armed to the
teeth, at the gangways, and along the weather-side of the schooner, to
be in readiness to repel the foe when they should attempt to board.

There was no hesitation on the part of the pirates, although they saw
plainly the vigorous preparations which were being made to receive them.
Bearing down on the crippled vessel at full speed, in spite of the
bellowing discharge from the great gun, and a well-delivered volley of
small shot, which stretched many of them on the deck, they ran straight
against her, threw grappling-irons into the rigging, and sprang on board
with a fierce yell.

The melee that followed was sharp, but very short and decisive.  The
Sicilian crew fought with the courage of desperate men, but were almost
instantly overpowered by numbers.  Mariano had singled out the pirate
captain as his own special foe.  In making towards the spot where he
expected that he would board, he observed the tall Jew standing by the
wheel with his arms crossed on his breast, and regarding the attack with
apparent indifference.

"What!" cried Mariano, anger mingling with his surprise, "do you stand
idle at such a moment?"

"You will miss your chance," returned Bacri, giving a glance and a nod
towards the side of the vessel where the pirate captain stood ready to
spring.

Almost at the instant that the brief hint was given, Mariano had sprung
to the bulwarks, and parried the thrust of a boarding-spike, which act
unfortunately disconcerted his aim in discharging his pistol.  Next
moment he had seized the pirate by the throat, and fell with him to the
deck, where a fierce struggle ensued.

We have said that the Sicilian youth was powerfully made, but the pirate
captain was more than a match for him in size, if not in courage;
nevertheless, the superior activity of Mariano, coupled with the fact
that he chanced to fall uppermost, gave him an advantage which would in
a few moments have cost the pirate his life, had not a blow from behind
rendered his youthful adversary insensible.

Rising hastily and regaining the yataghan which had fallen from his
grasp in the struggle, the pirate captain was about to rush again into
the fight, but, perceiving that although one or two of the schooner's
crew still showed resistance, his men were almost everywhere in
possession of the deck, he desisted, and turned with a look of surprise
to the man who had freed him from his antagonist.

"_You_ here, Bacri!" he said.  "Truly my fate is a hard one when it
condemns me to be rescued by a dog of a Jew."

"It might have been harder, Sidi Hassan, if it had condemned you to be
slain by the hand of a Christian," replied the Jew, with an air of
humility that scarcely harmonised with his towering height and his
breadth of shoulder.

Hassan uttered a short laugh, and was about to reply when a shout from
his men caused him to run to the forward part of the vessel, where
Francisco, Lucien, and the warlike negro already referred to were still
fighting desperately, surrounded by pirates, many of whom were badly
wounded.  It was well for the three heroes that their foes had
discharged all their pistols at the first rush.  Some of them, now
rendered furious by the unexpectedly successful opposition made by the
dauntless three, as well as by the smarting of their wounds, were
hastily re-loading their weapons, when their captain came forward.  It
was obvious that mercy or forbearance had been driven from their
breasts, and that a few seconds more would put a bloody end to the
unequal contest.

"Spare them, Sidi Hassan," said the Jew in a deeply earnest tone.

"Why should I spare them?" returned the captain quietly; "they deserve
to die, and such men would prove to be but troublesome slaves."

The Jew bent towards Hassan's ear and whispered.

"Ha! sayest thou so?" exclaimed the pirate, with a piercing glance at
his companion.  "May I trust thee, Jew?"

"You may trust me," replied the Jew, apparently quite unmoved by the
insolent tones of the other.

"Stand back, men!" cried Hassan, springing between the combatants;
"death by sword or pistol is too good for these Christian dogs; we shall
reserve them for something better."  Then, turning to Francisco, "Lay
down your arms."

"We will lay down our arms," answered the bluff merchant, who was not at
all sorry to obtain this brief period of breathing-time, "when we have
laid you and a few more of your ruffians on the deck."

Hassan turned to his men and gave them an order in the Turkish language.

Several of them hurried aft, and immediately returned, dragging along
with them poor Mariano, who was just recovering from the blow given to
him by Bacri.  On seeing the plight of his father and brother he made a
desperate effort to free himself, but quickly found that he was as
helpless as a child in the grasp of the three powerful men who held him.

Hassan drew a pistol and put its muzzle to the youth's temple, then,
turning to Francisco, said:--

"Lay down your arms, else I scatter his brains on the deck.  Take your
choice, but see that you be quick about it."

There was that in the pirate captain's tone and look which induced
instant compliance.  Francisco and his companions, at once laying down
their weapons, were seized and had their arms pinioned.  Mariano was
also bound, and then their conquerors proceeded to clear the decks of
the dead and wounded.  This was soon accomplished; a prize crew was
placed in the schooner; the captives, still pinioned, were transferred
to the deck of the pirate-vessel, and there left to do as they pleased,
while the captain and Bacri descended to the cabin.

Night soon after descended on the sea, the wind fell almost to a calm,
the moon shone round and full in a cloudless sky, and the vessel glided
quietly along, while the rascally crew lay conversing and smoking on her
deck, many of them bearing marks of the recent conflict, and some
sleeping as peacefully as though their hands were guiltless of shedding
human blood, and legitimate trade their occupation.



CHAPTER THREE.

REVEALS SOMETHING SURPRISING IN REGARD TO EUROPEAN FORBEARANCE AND
PIRATIC IMPUDENCE.

Seated on a gun-carriage, apart from his comrades in sorrow, Francisco
Rimini gazed in stern silence upon the moonlit sea, and thought,
perchance, of the little old lady with the rippling mouth, and the
dark-eyed daughter of his adoption.

"Your fate is a sad one," said a deep voice close to his side.

Francisco started, and looked round with indignant surprise at Bacri.

"None the less sad that a friend has proved false, Jew," he said
sternly.  "It has never been my custom to call any of your race `dog,'
as too many of my creed have done in time past, but I am tempted to
change my custom this night."

"To misname me would do you no good and me no harm," replied the Jew
gravely.  "My race is an accursed one as far as man is concerned, but
man's curse is of no more value than his blessing."

"If these arms were free, Bacri," retorted Francisco hotly, "I would
teach thee that which would prove anything but a blessing to thy
carcase, thou huge caitiff!  I had thought better of thee than thou
didst deserve.--Go, thy bulky presence is distasteful."

"Wherein have I wronged you?" asked the Jew.

"Wronged me!" exclaimed Francisco, with rising wrath, "art thou not hand
and glove with the chief pirate?  Thinkest thou that my eyes have lost
their power of vision?"

"Truly I am acquainted with the corsair, though the acquaintance was
none of my seeking," returned the Jew, "for, as I said before, traders
have dealings with many sorts of men; but I did not advise him to attack
you, and I could not hinder him."

"Scoundrel!" exclaimed the padrone, "couldst thou not restrain thine
hand when it knocked the senses out of my boy Mariano?  Wouldst have me
believe that thy huge fists are not subject to thy villainous will, or
that they acted as they did by mere accident, instead of aiding to repel
the pirates?"

"I did it to save his life," replied Bacri, "and not only his, but your
own and the lives of all your men.  I saw that Mariano was about to
prevail, and if he had slain the corsair chief, not one of you would
have been alive at this moment."

Francisco's wrath when roused was not readily appeased, nevertheless
this statement puzzled him so much that he remained silently gazing at
the Jew, from sheer inability to express his feelings.

"Listen," continued Bacri, drawing nearer, and speaking in a lower tone,
"the man into whose hands you have fallen is Sidi Hassan, one of the
most noted and daring of the pirates on the Barbary coast.  Escape from
him is impossible.  I know him well, and can assure you that your only
hope of receiving anything that deserves the title of good treatment
depends on your quiet and absolute subjection to his will.  Rebellious
or even independent bearing will insure your speedy and severe
humiliation.  We `dogs of Jews,'" continued Bacri, with a sad smile,
"may seem to you to hang our heads rather low sometimes, but I have seen
Christian men, as bold as you are, crawl upon the very dust before these
Turks of Algiers."

"Our fate, then," said Francisco, "is, I suppose, and as I half
suspected, to be slavery in that pirates' nest, Algiers?"

"I fear it is," replied the Jew, "unless Providence permits a storm to
set you free; but let me correct your notion of Algiers.  A pirates'
nest it undoubtedly is, but there are others than pirates in the nest,
and some of these are even honest men."

"Ha!" exclaimed the padrone, quickly and with bitterness; "is one of
these said honest men a Jew of stalwart frame, and does his connexion
with the piratical nest free him from the bonds to which I and my sons
are doomed?"

"To both questions I answer yes," replied the Jew.

"Then a fig for your honesty, Master Bacri!" said Francisco, with a toss
of his head, in lieu of a snap of his fingers, which in the
circumstances was impossible, "for I now believe that you knocked
Mariano down simply to save the life of your comrade Sidi Hassan, and
that you will pocket your own share of my ship and cargo."

"I have not the power to alter your belief," said the Jew quietly, as he
turned away and left the unfortunate captive to his meditations.

As the night advanced the wind continued to abate, and when morning
broke, the broad breast of the Mediterranean undulated like a sheet of
clear glass, on which was gradually revealed the form of a strange
vessel becalmed not far from the prize.

As soon as it was sufficiently light to permit of objects being clearly
seen, Sidi Hassan fired a gun and showed the Algerine flag.

"Our luck has changed," he said to his first officer, with an air of
satisfaction.  "Get the boats ready; we will board at once."

"She shows British colours," said the mate, regarding the vessel in
question intently through his glass.

"So she does," returned the captain, "but that device won't go down with
me.  Board her at once, while I bring our broadside to bear."

The mate, with two boats full of armed men, soon pulled alongside the
strange sail, and the pirate-vessel was brought round with her broadside
to bear by means of long oars or sweeps.  In a short time the boats
returned with the mortifying intelligence that the papers were all
right, and that the vessel, being in truth a British merchantman, was
not a legitimate prize.  The corsair therefore sailed away under the
influence of a light breeze which had arisen.

At the time of which we write, (about sixty years ago), Algiers was
under the dominion of Turkey, but exercised all the rights of an
independent state.  It may be described as a monstrous blot of barbarism
hanging on the skirts of civilisation.  It was an anomaly too, for it
claimed to be an orthodox power, and was recognised as such by the
nations of Europe, while in reality its chief power consisted in
consummate impudence, founded on pride and ignorance of the strength of
other powers, coupled with the peculiarity of its position and with the
fact that the great nations were too much engaged fighting with each
other to be at leisure to pay attention to it.  Its rulers or Deys were
most of them ignorant men, who had risen, in many cases, from the ranks
of the janissaries or common Turkish soldiery, and its sole occupation
was piracy--piracy pure and simple.

It did not, like other powers, find a pretext for war in the righting of
a supposed or real wrong.  The birds of the Pirates' Nest were much too
simple in their grandeur thus to beat about the bush.  They went
straight to the point.  Without any pretext at all they declared war
with a nation when they had a mind to plunder it, and straightway set
about making prizes of the merchantmen of that nation; at the same time
keeping carefully clear of its cruisers.  If there had been a tangible
grievance, diplomacy might have set it right--but there never was any
grievance, either real or imaginary.  If there had been a worthy fleet
that would come out and face a foe, courage and power might have settled
the question--but there was no such fleet.  The nest possessed only a
few small frigates and a considerable number of boats, large and small,
which crept along the northern shores of Africa, and pounced upon unwary
traders, or made bold dashes at small villages on the southern shores of
Europe and in the isles of the Mediterranean.  Trade was horribly
hampered by them, though they had no ostensible trade of their own;
their influence on southern Europe being comparable only to that of a
wasps' nest under one's window, with this difference, that even wasps,
as a rule, mind their own business, whereas the Algerine pirates minded
the business of everybody else, and called _that_ their own special
vocation!

Like other powers, they took prisoners, but instead of exchanging these
in times of war and freeing them on return of peace, they made
galley-slaves of them all, and held them to ransom.  At all times there
were hundreds of Christian slaves held in bondage.  Even in this present
century, so late as 1816, the Algerine Turks held in captivity thousands
of Christian slaves of all grades and classes, from all parts of Europe,
and these were in many cases treated with a degree of cruelty which is
perhaps equalled, but not surpassed, by the deeds recorded of negro
slavery; and so hopeless were people as to the power or intention of
governments to mend this state of things, that societies were formed in
some of the chief countries in the world, including England, France, and
America, for the express purpose of ransoming Christian slaves from
those dreaded shores of Barbary.

Having said this, the reader will doubtless be prepared to hear that the
civilised world, howling with indignation, assailed, burned, and
exterminated this pirates' nest.  Not at all.  The thing was tolerated;
more than that, it was recognised!  Consuls were actually sent to the
nest to represent Great Britain, France, Spain, Portugal, Holland,
Sweden, Denmark, America; disgraceful treaties were entered into; and
annual tribute was paid by each of these, in the form of a costly
"present" to the Dey, for the purpose of securing immunity to their
trading vessels!  Whatever nation kept a consul at this nest and paid
"black-mail" passed scot free.  The nation that failed in these respects
was ruthlessly and systematically plundered--and this at the time when
Lord Nelson was scouring the ocean with mighty armaments; when our songs
lauded the wooden walls of old England to the skies; and when Great
Britain claimed to herself the proud title of "Mistress of the Sea"!  If
you doubt this, reader, let us assure you that all history asserts it,
that recorded facts confirm it, and that our proper attitude in regard
to it is to stand amazed, and admit that there are some things in this
curious world which "no fellow can understand."

Without apologising for this digression, we return to the thread of our
tale.

Finding, then, as we have said, that the British merchantman was not a
legitimate foe, the corsair proceeded to look out for a more worthy
object of attack--namely, a vessel of some hapless petty state, which,
being too venturesome, or too poor to pay black-mail, was at war,
perforce, with the Algerines.  Fortune, however, ceased for a short time
to be propitious.  No suitable vessel was to be found, therefore Sidi
Hassan resolved to exercise the rights of the unusually free and
independent power of which he was a worthy representative in a somewhat
strange fashion.

Bearing down on the coast, he sailed along it for some time, with the
intention of making a bold dash at some small fishing village.  His mate
rather objected to this, knowing well that such attempts were too apt to
be attended with considerable loss of life; but Sidi Hassan was not a
man to be easily turned from his purpose.  The sight of a brig in the
offing, however, induced him to run out again to sea.  He was soon
within hail, and, finding that the vessel was a Sicilian trader, boarded
her at once.

No opposition was offered, the brig being totally without arms and her
crew small.  She, like the vessel of our friend Francisco, was laden
with wine and fruit.  There were only two passengers on board, but these
two were great prizes in Hassan's estimation, being beautiful girls of
about seventeen and eighteen respectively.  They were sisters--the elder
being on her way with her infant son to join her husband in Malta.

Hassan was glad of the opportunity thus thrown in his way of pleasing
his master the Dey of Algiers by presenting to him these unfortunates,
whose manners and appearance bespoke them ladies, and at once sent them
on board his vessel, along with their money and jewels.  Their wardrobe
was distributed among the pirate crew--the money and jewels being the
Dey's perquisite.

"I have a plan in my head," said Hassan to his second in command, "which
the capture of this brig has suggested to me.  Go, take charge of our
vessel, and send me twenty of the best men of our crew fully armed--also
a British Union-jack.  There is a captain of a port in this
neighbourhood against whom I have a special grudge, and to whom I would
fain give a free passage to Algiers! so make haste."

The order was soon executed, and the pirate-vessel ordered to remain
where she was while the brig stood inshore and sailed along the coast.
In a few hours she was off the port above referred to, when she hove-to,
hoisted the British flag, and fired a gun.  The captain of the port
innocently put off to the brig, and in a few minutes found himself and
his boat's crew taken captive by the Algerines!

Having thus successfully accomplished his design, Hassan returned to his
vessel, put a crew on board the second prize, and, directing his course
to Africa made all sail for the port of Algiers.

During the voyage the unfortunate captives saw little of each other,
nevertheless Mariano saw enough of the sisters, to create in his breast
feelings of the tenderest pity--especially for the younger sister, whom
he thought rather pretty than otherwise!  As for the Jew, he kept aloof
from all the captives, but seemed to have a good understanding with the
pirate captain, and to be acquainted with several of his men.



CHAPTER FOUR.

INTRODUCES THE READER TO THE PIRATE CITY, AND TO A FEW OF ITS
PECULIARITIES AND PRACTICES.

Permit us now, good reader, to introduce you to the top of a house in
Algiers.  The roofs of the houses in the Pirate City are flat--a most
admirable Eastern peculiarity which cannot be too strongly recommended
to Western builders.  They are, therefore, available as pleasant
"terraces," on which you may rise above your cares, to lounge, and
smoke--if afflicted with the latter mania--and sip coffee with your
wife, (wives, if you be a Turk), or romp with your children--if not too
dignified--or cultivate flowers, or read in a state of elevated
serenity, or admire the magnificent view of the blue bay, backed by the
bluer Jurjura mountains, with the snow-topped range of the Lesser Atlas
beyond.  How much wiser thus to utilise one's house-top than to yield it
up, rent-free, to cats and sparrows!

Achmet Pasha, the Dey of Algiers at this time, or rather the
pirate-king, had a thorough appreciation of the roof of his palace, and
spent many hours daily on it, in consultation with his ministers, or in
converse with his wives.

As deys went, Achmet was a comparatively respectable man.  He thought no
more of cutting off a human head than of docking a rat's tail; but then
he did not take a particular pleasure in this employment, and was not
naturally cruel, which is more than could be said of many of his
predecessors.  He was also said to be a kind husband and a fond father,
but as no one, save the wives and children in question, knew anything of
the inner and private life of the palace, this must for ever remain a
matter of uncertainty.  There was no doubt, however, that he was a tall,
handsome, dignified man, in the prime of life, with a stern eye and a
pleasant expression of mouth; that, in character, he was bold and
resolute; and that, in his jewelled turban, gold-incrusted vestments,
and flowing Eastern robes, he looked resplendent.

Courage and resolution were, indeed, qualities without which a Dey of
Algiers could scarcely come into existence, because his high position,
not being hereditary, was naturally the ambitious goal of all the bold
spirits in the Turkish army of janissaries which held the city, with its
mixed Arab population, in subjection.  The most common mode of a change
of government was the strangulation of the reigning Dey by the man who
had power and party influence sufficient to enable him to ascend the
vacant throne.  Sometimes the throne thus obtained was held for only a
few days, or even hours, when it chanced that there were several
factions of pretty equal power, and two or three men of similar vigour
in the army.  It is a fact that on more than one occasion three Deys
have ascended and sat upon this undesirable throne within twenty-four
hours, each having been strangled or having had his head cut off by "the
opposition" soon after occupying his predecessor's warm seat!

Achmet, however, had reigned for a considerable period in peace, and was
on the whole a popular ruler.

At the time when we introduce him he was pacing the terrace, or roof of
the palace, with slow dignified steps, but with a troubled expression of
countenance.  His chief adviser, Sidi Omar, the Minister of Marine, and
one of the most unscrupulous and cunning men in the nest, walked beside
him.  They were attended and followed by a young but nearly full-grown
lion.  It was a common thing for the Deys and his chief officers to keep
lion-pups as pets, but as a rule these were chained up on becoming too
large to be safe playthings.  Achmet, however, being of a bold, reckless
nature, seemed to enjoy the occasional symptoms of alarm betrayed by his
attendants at sight of his overgrown pup, and kept it by him until, as
we have said, it was nearly full-grown.  He appeared to have no idea of
personal danger.  Possibly he did not believe the huge playful brute to
be capable of mischief.  Perhaps he felt confident in the keen edge of
his Damascene scimitar, and in the power of his arm to lop off even
leonine heads.  Whatever may have been the truth on this point, his ease
and indifference were evidently not shared by Sidi Omar.

That sly individual was a strong-bodied, middle-aged Turk of commanding
presence but sinister countenance, which latter was damaged by the loss
of an eye and a sabre-cut across the nose.

"I have been asked," said Omar, continuing a conversation which had
already lasted some time, "to beg that your highness will grant an
audience to the Spanish consul; he claims as countrywomen the two ladies
who have been just brought in by Sidi Hassan, but I advise that you
should refuse him."

"Why so?" asked Achmet.

"Because, although there is, I believe, some ground for his claim, the
investigation of the question will only occasion useless trouble, as he
is unable to prove his case."

"Nay, then, your last reason seems to me in favour of granting an
audience," returned the Dey, "for if his plea be insufficient I shall
thus appear to be desirous of furthering justice without suffering loss.
It is always wise to act with urbanity when it costs one nothing."

Achmet smiled, and a gleam of mischievous fun twinkled in his eyes as he
observed his minister cast a furtive glance, suggestive of anything but
urbanity, at the lion, which had playfully brushed its tail against his
leg in passing.

"Your highness's judgment is always just," returned Sidi Omar; "and were
we desirous of maintaining peace with Spain at present, it would be
right to propitiate their consul; but, as you are aware, the treaties
which we have recently formed with various nations are not to our
advantage.  The peace recently forced upon us by America has stopped
suddenly the annual flow of a very considerable amount of tribute, (see
Note 1), and the constant efforts made by that nation of ill-favoured
dogs, the British, to bring about peace between us and Portugal will, I
fear, soon dry up another source of revenue, if things go on as they
have been doing of late, it is plain to me that we shall soon be at
peace with all the world, and be under the necessity of turning our
hands to farming or some such work for a livelihood!"

"Fear not, Sidi Omar," replied the Dey, with a short laugh, "this fair
and ancient city has lived too long by war to be capable of
condescending now to arts of peace.  We shall have no difficulty in
picking a quarrel with any nation that seems most desirable when our
coffers begin to grow empty--in regard to which, let us be thankful,
they show no signs at present.  But have a care, Omar, how you speak
disrespectfully of the British.  They are apt, like their representative
at your heels, to spring when you least expect it, and they have
powerful claws and teeth.  Besides, they are my very good friends, and
some of their statesmen have a great regard for me.  Being at war, as
you know, with some of the most powerful European nations just now, they
know that I do them good service in the Mediterranean by rendering trade
difficult and hazardous to all except those with whom I am at peace.
Spain being on friendly terms with us at present, I will receive the
Spanish consul.  Go, let him know my pleasure, and see that thou hast my
scrivano instilled with all requisite information to refute him."

Sidi Omar bowed low, and retired without venturing a reply.  At the same
time a man of curious aspect stepped from the doorway which conducted
from the terrace to the lower parts of the house.  His Eastern costume
was almost equal to that of the Dey in magnificence, but there was a
tinselly look about the embroidery, and a glassy sheen in the jewels,
which, added to the humorous and undignified cast of his countenance,
bespoke him one of low degree.  He was the Dey's story-teller, and
filled much the same office at the palace that was held by court jesters
in the olden time.  The presence of some such individual in Achmet's
court, even in the first quarter of the present century, was rendered
necessary by the fact that the Dey himself had risen from the ranks, and
was an illiterate man.

Advancing towards his master with a freedom that no other domestic of
the palace would have dared to assume, he, with affected solemnity,
demanded an audience.

"I cannot refuse it, Hadji Baba, seeing that thou dost swagger into my
presence unbidden," said Achmet, with a smile, as he sat down in the
usual oriental fashion--cross-legged on a low couch--and patted the head
of the noble animal which he had chosen as his companion, and which
appeared to regard him with the affection of a dog--

"What may be your news?"

"I have no news," replied Baba, with humility.  "News cannot be conveyed
to one who knows all things, by one who is a dog and knows nothing."

"Thou knowest at all events how to look well after that which concerns
thyself," replied the Dey.  "What hast thou to say to me?"

"That the man with the proboscis, who struts when he walks, and snivels
when he speaks, desires a favour of your highness."

"Speak not in riddles," returned the Dey sharply.  "I have no time to
waste with thee to-day.  Say thy say and be gone."

Hadji Baba, who was indeed thoroughly alive to his own interest, was
much too prudent to thwart the humour of his master.  Briefly, though
without changing his tone or manner, he informed him that the Spanish
consul awaited his pleasure below.

"Let him wait," said the Dey, resuming the pipe which for some minutes
he had laid aside, and caressing the lion's head with the other hand.

"May I venture to say that he seems anxious?" added the story-teller.

"How much did he give thee for thus venturing to interrupt me, at the
risk of thy head?" demanded the Dey sternly.

"Truly," replied the jester, with a rueful air, "not much more than
would buy gold thread to sew my head on again, were your highness
pleased to honour me by cutting it off."

"Be gone, caitiff," said the Dey, with a slight smile.

Baba vanished without further reply.

Meanwhile Sidi Omar left the palace and directed his steps to his own
quarters, which stood on the little fortified island in front of
Algiers.  This islet, having been connected with the mainland by a pier
or neck of masonry about a hundred yards long, formed the insignificant
harbour which gave shelter to the navy of small craft owned by the
pirates.  At the present day the French have constructed there a
magnificent harbour, of which that now referred to is a mere corner in
the vicinity of the old light-house.  Although small, the port was well
fortified, and as the Minister of Marine descended towards it, his eye
glanced with approval over the double and treble tiers of guns which
frowned from its seaward battlements.  In passing over the connecting
pier, Sidi Omar paused to observe a gang of slaves at work repairing
some of the buildings which covered the pier stretching from the
mainland to the island.

Although slaves, they were not of the black colour or thick-lipped,
flat-nosed aspect which we are apt to associate with the name of slave.
They were, indeed, burnt to the deepest brown, and many of them also
blistered, by the sun, but they were all "white men," and contemptuously
styled, by their Mohammedan task-masters, Christians.  The pier on which
they wrought had been constructed long before by thirty thousand such
slaves; and the Algerine pirates, for above three centuries previous to
that, had expended the lives of hundreds of thousands of them in the
building of their fortifications and other public works; in the
cultivation of their fields and gardens, and in the labours of their
domestic drudgery.

Some of the slaves thus observed by the Minister of Marine had been
sailors and merchants and mechanics, military and naval officers,
clerks, scholars, and other gentlefolks from Italy, Portugal, America,
and all the lands which chanced to be "at war" with his highness the
Dey.  Formerly there had been hosts of English, French, Spanish,
etcetera, but their governments having bowed their heads, opened their
purses, and sent consuls to the piratical city, they were now graciously
exempted from thraldom.  It was hardish work for men accustomed to
cooler climates to be obliged, in the sunshine of an African summer, to
harness themselves to carts like oxen, and lift huge stones and hods of
mortar with little more than a ragged shirt and trousers to cover them
from the furnace-heat of day or the dews of night.  Men who carry
umbrellas and wear puggeries now-a-days on the Boulevard de la
Republique of Algiers have but a faint conception of what some of their
forefathers endured down at the "Marina" not much more than fifty years
ago, and of what they themselves could endure, perhaps, if fairly tried!
It must not be supposed, however, that all the slaves stood the trial
equally well.  Some were old, others were young; some were feeble,
others strong; all were more or less worn--some terribly so.

Yonder old man carrying the block of stone which might tax the energies
of a stout youth, and to whom a taskmaster has just administered a cut
with the driving-whip, looks like one who has seen better days.  Even in
his ragged shirt, broken-brimmed straw hat, and naked feet, he looks
like a gentleman.  So he is; and there is a gentle lady and a stout son,
and two sweet daughters, in Naples, who are toiling almost as hard as he
does--if hours be allowed to count for pains--in order to make up his
ransom.  The strong bull-necked man that follows him with a hod of
mortar is an unmistakable seaman of one of the Mediterranean ports.  He
is a desperate character, and in other lands might be dangerous; but he
is safe enough here, for the bastinado is a terrible instrument of
torture, and the man is now not only desperate in wrath, but is
sometimes desperately frightened.  His driver takes a fiendish pleasure
in giving him an extra cut of the whip, just to make him apparently a
willing horse, whether he will or not.  The poor youth beside him is a
very different character.  His training has been more gentle, and his
constitution less robust, for he has broken down under the cruel toil,
and is evidently in the last stages of consumption.  The taskmaster does
not now interfere with him as he was wont to do when he first arrived.
He knows that the day is not far distant when neither the bastinado nor
any other species of torture will have power to force work out of him.
He also knows that overdriving will only shorten the days of his
usefulness; he therefore wisely lets him stagger by unmolested, with his
light load.

But why go on enumerating the sorrows of these slaves?  Sidi Omar looked
at them with a careless glance, until he suddenly caught sight of
something that caused his eyes to flash and his brows to contract.  A
sbirro, or officer of justice, stood near him, whether by chance or
otherwise we know not.  Touching the sbirro on the shoulder, he pointed
to a group under the shade of an archway, and said in a low tone--

"Go, fetch hither that scoundrel Blindi."

The sbirro at once stepped towards the group, which consisted of two
persons.  One was an old, apparently dying, slave; the other was a
strong middle-aged man, in a quaint blue gown, who knelt by his side,
and poured something from a flask into his mouth.

The sbirro seized this man rudely by the neck, and said--

"Get up, Blindi, and come along with me."  Laying the head of the old
man gently on the ground, and rising with some wrath, Blindi demanded,
in English so broken that we find difficulty in mending it sufficiently
to be presented to the reader--

"Wot for you means by dat?"

"Speak your mother tongue, you dog, and make haste, for the Minister of
Marine wants you."

"Oh! mos' awfrul," exclaimed Blindi, turning pale, and drawing his blue
garment hastily round him, as he meekly followed the officer of
justice--whose chief office, by the way, was to administer injustice.

The man whom we have styled Blindi was a somewhat peculiar character.
He was an Algerine by birth, but had served several years in the British
navy, and had acquired a smattering of the English language--forecastle
English, as a matter of course.  In consequence of this, and of having
lost an eye in the service, he had obtained a pension, and the
appointment of interpreter to all his Britannic Majesty's ships visiting
Algiers.  He dwelt at the harbour, or Marina, where he excited the
wonder and admiration of all the Turks and Moors by his volubility in
talking English.  He was a man of no small importance, in his own
estimation, and was so proud of his powers as a linguist that he
invariably interlarded his converse with English phrases, whether he was
addressing Turk, Jew, or Christian.  Lingua Franca--a compound of nearly
all the languages spoken on the shores of the Mediterranean--was the
tongue most in use at the Marina of Algiers at that time, but as this
would be unintelligible to our reader, we will give Blindi's
conversations in his favourite language.  What his real name was we have
failed to discover.  The loss of his eye had obtained for him in the
navy the name of Blind Bob.  In his native city this was Italianised
into Blindi Bobi.  But Bobi was by no means blind of the other eye.  It
was like seven binocular glasses rolled into one telescope.  Once he had
unfortunately brought it to bear on the Minister of Marine with such a
concentrated stare that he, being also blind of an eye, regarded it as a
personal allusion thereto, and never forgave Blindi Bobi.

"This is the second time," said Omar, when the culprit was brought
before him, "that I have caught you interfering with the slaves."

"Please, sar, hims was werry bad--dyin', me s'pose."

"Speak your own tongue, dog, else you shall smart for it," said the
Minister of Marine, with increasing wrath.

The poor interpreter to his Britannic Majesty's navy repeated his words
in the Lingua Franca, but Omar, again interrupting him, ordered the
sbirro to take him off and give him the bastinado.

"And have a care, Blindi," added Omar, observing that the interpreter
was about to speak; "if you say that you are under the protection of the
British consul I'll have you flayed alive.--Off with him!"

The sbirro, with a comrade, led Bobi through several of the narrow
streets of the town to a chamber which was set apart for the infliction
of punishment.  It was a dark, vaulted apartment under a public
building.  The massive pillars of stone which supported its roof looked
pale and ghostlike against the thick darkness which was beyond them,
giving the idea of interminable space.  One of the sbirros lighted a
lantern, and led the way through a massive door, all studded with huge
nails, into a small square chamber, the walls of which looked as if they
had been bespattered with a dark-brown liquid, especially in the
neighbourhood of several iron rings, from which chains depended.  In
addition to these and a number of other characteristic implements, there
was a pile of blood-stained rods in a corner.

Saying a few words to a powerful negro whom they found in attendance,
the sbirros handed Blindi Bobi over to him.  He instantly disrobed him
of his blue gown, and threw him on his back with the aid of an equally
powerful assistant, and began to uncover his stomach.

The interpreter was no coward.  He had prepared himself to endure
manfully the bastinado on the soles of his feet--as it was usually
administered--but when he perceived that they were about to inflict the
blows on a more tender part of his body, he trembled and remonstrated.

"Sidi Omar no' say you hit 'im dare.  Hims 'peal to British consil--"

Thus far he spoke, from the force of habit, in his adopted tongue, but
fear speedily drove him to that of his mother.

All tongues, however, were alike to the negroes, who, rendered callous
from long service against their will in a brutalising office, went about
their preparations with calm and slow indifference.

Just as they were about to begin, one of the sbirros, who had a personal
regard for Bobi, spoke a few words to one of the negroes, who
immediately turned Blindi Bobi on his face and firmly raised his feet so
that the naked soles were turned upwards.  The other negro applied one
of the rods thereto with all his might.  For a few seconds the poor
sufferer uttered no sound, but at last he gave vent to an irresistible
yell.  At a sign from the chief sbirro the punishment was stopped, and
Bobi was released and allowed to rise.

Conducting him to the door, the sbirro thrust him into the street, flung
his blue gown after him, and advised him to beware of again rousing the
wrath of Sidi Omar.

Blindi Bobi was far too well acquainted with the cruelties perpetrated
continually in the pirate city to be ignorant of the fact that he had
got off with a light punishment, yet we fear that did not cause him to
entertain much gratitude to Sidi Omar as he limped back to his quarters
at the Marina.

Arrived there, he observed that the sick old man still lay where he had
left him.  Running towards him with a sudden impulse, he drew forth his
flask, knelt down, raised the old man's head and gave him a long hearty
draught, after which he took another to himself.

"Derre!" he said, rising and shaking his fist defiantly in the direction
in which Sidi Omar dwelt, "I's revenged on you--brute! bah! boo-o!"

After this relief to his feelings Blindi Bobi went home to attend to his
poor feet.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

Note 1.  In 1795 the Americans concluded peace with the Algerians by the
payment of half a million piastres, and an annual tribute of 24,000
piastres.



CHAPTER FIVE.

SHOWS THE LIGHT IN WHICH CONSULS WERE REGARDED BY PIRATES, AND TELLS OF
A CRUEL SEPARATION AND A STUNNING BLOW.

Seated on a throne in a recess of the audience-chamber of the palace,
Achmet Pasha at length condescended to receive Don Pedro, the
representative of Spain.

The Dey was robed in barbaric splendour, and absolutely shone with gold
embroidery and precious stones.  Centuries of robbery on the high seas
had filled the treasury of the pirates' nest to overflowing, not only
with hard cash, but with costly gems of all kinds, hence there was a
lavish expenditure of jewellery on the costumes of the Dey and his wives
and courtiers.

The recess in which he sat had a dome-ceiling, of workmanship so
elaborate that there was not a square inch of unadorned stucco on any
part of it.  It was lighted partly from the roof by means of four minute
windows, of yellow, crimson, green, and blue glass.  The walls were
decorated with coloured china tiles, and the floor was paved with white
marble.

In front of the throne or elevated dais couched the magnificent lion
which we have already mentioned.  It was the Dey's whim to use this
animal as a footstool on all public occasions, much to the annoyance of
his courtiers and household, who felt, although they did not dare to
express it, considerable anxiety lest it should take a sudden fancy to
feed on human flesh.

Behind the Dey stood several guards, two of whom were negroes.

Don Pedro bowed low on being admitted, and the lion, raising his head,
uttered a low growl, which had something distantly thunderous in the
tone.  Being apparently satisfied that the Don was a friend, it again
laid its chin on its paws and appeared to go to sleep.

The Spanish consul was a fine-looking, dignified man, with a nose
sufficiently prominent to account for the irreverent reference made to
it by Hadji Baba, the story-teller.

In a few words he stated his case touching the female captives recently
brought in by Sidi Hassan, and claimed that, as Spanish subjects, they
should be set free and placed under his care.

"What proof can you give," demanded the Dey, "that these ladies are
really the subjects of Spain?"

"Alas!" replied Don Pedro, "I have no means of verifying what I say; but
I feel assured that your highness will not doubt my word, when I say
that, while in my own land, I knew the family to which they belong."

"That is not sufficient," returned the Dey.  "From all that I can learn,
their father lived and died and they were born, in Sicily, and the
eldest is the wife of an Italian merchant, who will doubtless be glad to
pay a good ransom to get her and his little infant back.  As to the
sister, we can find room for her in the palace, if she be not ransomed.
Besides, Monsieur le Console,"--here the Dey spoke sternly--"your word
is not a good guarantee.  Did you not give me your word three months ago
that your government would pay the six thousand dollars which are still
due to us?  Why has not this promise been fulfilled?"

"It grieves me, your highness," replied Don Pedro, with a mortified
look, "that this debt has not yet been discharged, but I can assure you
that I have communicated with my Sovereign on the subject and have no
doubt that a satisfactory explanation and reply will be sent to you
without delay."

"It is to be hoped that such may be the case, for I give you _my_ word--
and you may safely rely on _it_--that if the cash is not sent to me
immediately I will send you to work in chains in the quarries with the
other slaves.--Go, let your Sovereign know my intention as speedily as
may be."

Lest the reader should be surprised to hear of any consul being thus
cavalierly treated, it may be well to explain that the barbarians, who
were thus unworthily honoured in being recognised by the European powers
at all, were grossly ignorant of the usages of civilised nations, and of
the sacred character in which the persons and families of consuls are
held.  The Deys of Algiers were constantly in the habit of threatening
the consuls themselves with flagellation and death, in order to obtain
what they desired from their respective governments, and sometimes even
carried their threats into execution--as an instance of which we may
cite the well-authenticated fact that when the French Admiral Duquesne
bombarded Algiers, the consul and twenty-two other Frenchmen were sent
out to the fleet in small pieces--blown from the mouths of cannon!
True, this was in the year 1683, but up to the very end of their bloody
and ferocious domination, the Deys maintained their character for
ignorance and barbarity--evidence of which shall be given in the sequel
of our tale.

When Don Pedro had been thus ignominiously dismissed, Sidi Hassan was
sent for by the Dey.  This man was one of the most turbulent characters
in the city, and the Dey thought it his wisest policy to secure his
friendship if possible by mingling kindness with severity.  In the event
of this course failing, he comforted himself with the reflection that it
would not be difficult to get rid of him by the simple, and too
frequently used, process of strangulation.  The knowledge that Hassan
was a favourite among the Turkish troops prevented his at once adopting
the latter method.

He was all urbanity and smiles, therefore, when the pirate captain
obeyed his summons.  He thanked him for the two pretty slave-girls he
had brought in, commended him for his success in taking prizes, and
added that he had appointed him to fill the office of attendant
janissary upon the British consul.

Up to this point Sidi Hassan had listened with satisfaction, but the
appointment just offered seemed to him so contemptible that he had
difficulty in dissembling his feelings.  The knowledge, however, that
his despotic master held his life in his hand, induced him to bow and
smile, as if with gratitude.

"And now," said the Dey, "I have a commission for you.  Go to the
British consul, tell him of your appointment, and present him with my
compliments and with the eldest slave-girl and her infant as a gift from
me.  Paulina is her name, is it not?"

"Yes, your highness--Paulina Ruffini, and the sister's name is Angela
Diego."

"Good.  Angela you may keep to yourself," continued the Dey, as coolly
as if he had been talking of a silver snuff-box.

Hassan again bowed and smiled, and again had to constrain his
countenance to express gratification, though he was not a little
disgusted with Achmet's indifference to the captive girls.

Leaving the palace in a state of high indignation, he resolved to sell
Angela in the public market, although by so doing he could not hope to
gain so much as would have been the case were he to have disposed of her
by private bargain.  Thus, with strange perversity, does an angry man
often stand in the way of his own interests.

We need scarcely say that, when their fate was announced to the unhappy
sisters, they were plunged into a state of wild grief, clung to each
other's necks, and refused to be separated.

Little did Sidi Hassan care for their grief.  He tore them asunder,
locked Paulina up with her infant, and led the weeping Angela to the
slave-market, which was in the immediate neighbourhood of one of the
largest mosques of the city.

This mosque, named Djama Djedid, still stands, under the name of the
Mosquee de la Pecherie, one of the most conspicuous and picturesque
buildings in Algiers.  It was built in the seventeenth century by a
Genoese architect, a slave, who, unfortunately for himself built it in
the form of a cross, for which he was put to death by the reigning Dey.
In front of the northern door of this mosque the narrow streets of the
city gave place to a square, in which was held the market for Christian
slaves.

Here might be seen natives of almost every country--men and women and
children of all ages and complexions, civilised and uncivilised, gentle
and simple--exposed for sale; while turbaned Turks, Moors in broad-cloth
burnouses and gay vestments, Jews in dark costume, Arabs from the
desert, and men of nondescript garments and character, moved about,
criticising, examining, buying, and selling.

Just as Sidi Hassan reached the market, a gang of Christian slaves were
halted near the door of the mosque.  It was evening.  They had been
toiling all day at the stone-quarries in the mountains, and were now on
their way, weary, ragged, and foot-sore, to the Bagnio, or prison, in
which were housed the public slaves--those not sold to private
individuals, but retained by government and set to labour on the public
works.

A few of these slaves wore ponderous chains as a punishment for having
been unruly--the others were unshackled.  Among them stood our
unfortunate friends Francisco Rimini and his sons Lucien and Mariano--
but ah! how changed!  Only two days had elapsed since their arrival, yet
their nearest friends might have failed to recognise them, so
dishevelled were they, and their faces so covered with dust and
perspiration.  For their own garments had been substituted ragged shirts
and loose Turkish drawers reaching to below the knee.  Old straw hats
covered their heads, but their lower limbs and feet were naked; where
not stained by blood and dust, the fairness of their skins showed how
little they had been used to such exposure.  Lucien's countenance wore
an expression of hopeless despair; that of his father, which was wont to
look so bluff and hearty, now betrayed feelings of the tenderest pity,
as if he had forgotten his own sufferings in those of his children.
Mariano, on the contrary, looked so stubborn and wicked that no one
could have believed it possible he had ever been a gay, kindly,
light-hearted youth!  Poor fellow! his high spirit had been severely
tried that day, but evidently not tamed, though the blood on the back of
his shirt showed that his drivers had made vigorous attempts to subdue
him.  During the heat of the day Lucien had grown faint from toil and
hunger, and had received a cruel lash from one of their guardians.  This
had roused Mariano.  He had sprung to avenge the blow, had been seized
by three powerful men, lashed until he became insensible, and, on
recovering, had been forced to continue his toil of carrying stones
until not only all the strength, but apparently all the spirit, was
taken out of him.

From this condition he was reviving slightly when he reached the
market-place, and, as his strength returned, the firm pressure of his
lips and contraction of his brows increased.

The slave-drivers were not slow to observe this, and two of them took
the precaution to stand near him.  It was at this critical moment that
the poor youth suddenly beheld Angela Diego led into the market--more
interesting and beautiful than ever in her sorrow--to be sold as a
slave.

Mariano had been deeply touched by the sorrow and sad fate of the
sisters when he first saw them on board the pirate-vessel.  At this
sight of the younger sister, prudence, which had retained but a slight
hold of him during the day, lost command altogether.  In a burst of
uncontrollable indignation he sent one of his guards crashing through
the open doorway of the mosque, drove the other against the corner of a
neighbouring house, rushed towards Sidi Hassan, and delivered on the
bridge of that hero's nose a blow that instantly laid him flat on the
ground.  At the same moment he was seized by a dozen guards, thrown
down, bound, and carried off to the whipping-house, where he was
bastinadoed until he felt as if bones and flesh, were one mass of
tingling jelly.  In this state, almost incapable of standing or walking,
he was carried to the Bagnio, and thrown in among the other prisoners.

While Mariano was being conveyed away, Sidi Hassan arose in a
half-stupefied condition from the ground.  Fortunately he was ignorant
of who had knocked him down, and why he had been so treated, or he might
have vented his wrath on poor Angela.

Just at that moment he was accosted by Bacri the Jew--a convenient butt
on whom to relieve himself; for the despised Israelites were treated
with greater indignity in Algiers at that time than perhaps in any other
part of the earth.

"Dog," said he fiercely, "hast thou not business enough of thine own in
fleecing men, that thou shouldst interfere with me?"

"Dog though I may be," returned Bacri, with gravity, but without a touch
of injured feeling, "I do not forget that I promised you four thousand
dollars to spare the Christians, and it is that which induces me to
intrude on you now."

"Humph!" ejaculated Hassan, somewhat mollified; "I verily believe that
thou hast some interested and selfish motive at the bottom.  However,
that business is thine, not mine."

"Whether my motive be interested or not you are well able to judge,"
returned Bacri gently, "for the slaves are poor and helpless; they are
also Christians, and you know well that the Jews have no love for the
Christians; in which respect it seems to me that they bear some
resemblance to the men of other creeds."

Sidi Hassan felt that there was an intended sarcasm in the last remark,
but the thought of the dollars induced him to waive further discussion.

"Do you wish to sell the girl?" said Bacri in a casual way, as though it
had just occurred to him.

"Ay, but I must have a good price for her," replied the Turk.

"Name it," said the Jew; "my wife has need of a handmaiden just now."

Hassan named a sum much larger than he had any expectation the Jew would
give.  To his surprise, the other at once agreed to it.

"Why, Bacri," he said, with a smile, as with his right hand he tenderly
caressed his injured nose, "you must have been more than usually
successful in swindling of late."

"God has recently granted me more than deserved prosperity," returned
the other.

Without further palaver the bargain was struck.  Hassan accompanied the
Jew to his residence in one of the quaint Moorish houses of the old
town.  Angela was handed over to Bacri's wife, a pleasant-visaged woman
of forty, and Hassan returned home with his pockets well lined, his nose
much swelled, and his temper greatly improved.

Bethinking him of the Dey's commands, he set out with Paulina and her
infant for the residence of the British consul, which lay a short
distance outside the northern wall of the town, not far from the bluff
height on which, at the present day, towers the picturesque pile of
Notre-Dame d'Afrique.



CHAPTER SIX.

SENDS A GLEAM OF HOPE INTO A GLOOMY REGION.

The short twilight of southern latitudes was giving place to the shades
of night, when Bacri the Jew issued from the low door of his house, and
threaded the narrow labyrinth of streets which compose the old town of
Algiers.

The greater part of the old, or, as it is styled, the Moorish town,
remains almost exactly the same at the present time that it was at the
time of which our tale treats.  It occupied the face of a steep hill,
and was built in the form of a triangle, the apex being a fort, or
"casba," near the summit of the hill.  The base was a street of oriental
houses upwards of half a mile in extent, beyond which the sea-wall, well
lined with batteries, rose directly from the beach, and was washed by
the spray in every breeze.  All the houses facing the sea have now been
taken down, and their places are occupied by wide handsome streets of
French buildings; the beach and the site of the old wall being occupied
by splendid quays, wharves, and terraces.

The houses of the Moorish town were square white-washed blocks, built so
close to each other that most of the streets were mere lanes, not more
than from six to ten feet wide.  No windows worthy of the name garnished
the dead white walls of these houses, whose light sprang in reality from
within, each house being in the form of a square of building surrounding
a central court, which at the top was open to the weather.  The real
windows of the houses looked into the courts, which, however, were by no
means dismal.  They had fountains in the midst of them, which sent up a
perpetual--and, in such a climate, grateful--sound of trickling water;
while in their corners and elsewhere boxes of earth enabled
banana-trees, and palms, and various creepers, to convert the little
spots into delightful, though miniature, gardens.  Such windows as
opened outwards were mere loop-holes, not much more than a foot square--
many of them less,--the larger of them being always strongly grated.
Most of these houses projected beyond their basement storeys, thus
rendering the open space above narrower than the streets below, and in
many cases the walls absolutely met, and converted the streets into
tunnels.  Strange wooden props, seemingly insufficient for their duty,
upheld these projecting upper storeys, and gave a peculiarly un-European
character to the streets,--a character which became still more
perplexing to the stranger when he observed here and there, in places
where architecture had scarcely space or light to be seen, fountains of
the most elegant design and workmanship; doorways of white marble, most
elaborately and beautifully carved; and entrance-halls that resembled
courts of the Alhambra in miniature.

When one first sees such things they induce surprise, but the surprise
evaporates when we reflect that these pirates had at their command the
services of thousands of slaves, many of whom represented the artistic
talent of the civilised world.

Passing rapidly along these narrow streets, and bending his tall form
when he came to low archways, Bacri at length emerged on the chief "high
street" of the town, which, entering at the north, or Bab-el-Oued gate,
completely traversed the city under that name as far as the Dey's
palace, where it changed its name to Bab-Azoun, and terminated at the
south gate of the same name.

In this street was the Bagnio, already mentioned as being the prison of
the government slaves.

Here Bacri paused, drew a glittering coin from his pocket, and knocked
at a strong oaken door.  A janissary opened, and roughly demanded his
business, but changed his tone at once and gave the Jew admission, on
receiving the coin.

Passing though a lobby, whose marble pillars were sadly broken and
disfigured, the Jew entered a courtyard, open to the sky, around which
were a number of recesses or cells.  In these the unhappy slaves sat
huddled together.  They were not cold, for it was summer; but their
misery and want of space probably induced them to cling closely to each
other.

The place had once been a bathing establishment, and an old fountain
still gurgled in the centre of the court; but its drains had been choked
long ago, and the waters had overflowed, to find exit as they best
might, rendering the floor a damp and uncomfortable residence for
scorpions, centipedes, and other repulsive insects.

The slaves received only two small rolls of black bread as their rations
at the close of each day, and they were too eagerly engaged in devouring
these to pay much regard to their visitor.

Looking carefully round, the Jew at length discovered the objects of his
search,--Francisco, Lucien, and Mariano Rimini.  The two first were
seated side by side, eating their meagre meal.  Mariano lay near them,
heavily laden with irons, and also endeavouring to eat.

"Friends," said Bacri, approaching them.

"Villain!" cried Mariano, starting up into a reclining attitude, despite
the agony that the act occasioned, and fixing his eyes on the Jew.

"You do me injustice, young man," said Bacri, seating himself on the
basement of a pillar.

"It may be that he does you injustice," said Lucien sternly,
"nevertheless we have all of us good reason to believe that you are a
friend of the pirate Hassan, and no friend of ours."

"Whether friend or foe, say thy say, man, and be gone," cried the bluff
Francisco, whose spirit suffered even more than his body from the
indignities to which he had been subjected that day.

"Listen, then," said Bacri impressively.  "You know my name and nation,
but you do not know that I am the chief of the Jews in this city of
devils.  I and my people are regarded by these followers of Mohammed as
worse than the dogs in their streets, yet, while they treat us with the
utmost indignity, they know that we are good traders, and as such bring
riches within their walls.  I have power--the power of wealth--to help
you at a pinch; indeed I _have_ helped you, for it was only by means of
a promise of gold that I induced Sidi Hassan to spare your lives when
his men were bent on taking them.  But that is not what I came to tell
you to-night.  I came to say that the poor captive girls with whom you
voyaged to this place are for the present out of danger."

"Say you so?" exclaimed Mariano eagerly.  "How can that be?  Did I not
see Angela led to the slave-market this very afternoon?"

"You did, and I purchased her for the purpose of protecting her.  She is
now in my house.  Her sister and the infant have been sent as a
temporary gift or loan to the British consul, under whose care she is
safe _for the present_.  But be not too sanguine," added Bacri, seeing
that Mariano's countenance brightened; "the whim of the Dey, or a change
of government, which latter is common enough here, may totally alter the
state of affairs.  If the Dey willed it, I could not hold anything that
belongs to me for an hour.  They call us dogs, and treat us as such."

"They are themselves dogs!" cried Mariano indignantly.

"Christians have called us by the same name," returned the Jew calmly,
"thereby proving the falsity of their own faith."

"Say not so!" cried Lucien with animation.  "Many, calling themselves
Christians, have undoubtedly treated your race ill, but those who really
love the Lord Jesus cannot help respecting the people from whom Himself
sprang.  I side not with those who disgrace themselves by vilifying the
Jews."

Lucien extended his hand as he spoke, and Bacri grasped it kindly.

"Bah! you are fools; all of you arrant idiots!" cried a wild-looking
ragged man in the neighbouring cell, starting up and glaring at them as
he clenched his fists.  "What avails Christianity, or Judaism, or
anything else here?  'Tis a world of fiends!--ha, ha! murderers,
tormentors, hypocrites,--ha! ha!"

Here the man gave vent to a burst of wild ferocious laughter, so loud
that even the careless and callous warder was disturbed, and rattled his
keys as if about to enter.  The sound appeared to send a chill to the
heart of the captive; an expression of terror overspread his thin
haggard features, and he shrunk together as he retired quickly to the
remotest corner of his cell.

"A maniac, I fear," said Francisco in a low tone, observing that the Jew
regarded him with a look of pity.

"No, not quite mad," replied Bacri in the same low tone, "but sometimes
very near it, I think.  Poor man, I know him well.  He has been fifteen
years a prisoner in Algiers.  When first brought here he was as fine a
specimen of a Genoese youth as I ever saw.  His name is Lorenzo Benoni.
He was captured with his wife and two children, all of whom died before
the first year was out.  Of course, although in the same city, he was
never again permitted to see wife or children.  He was very dangerous at
first, attacking and nearly killing his guards whenever he got a chance,
and frequently attempting to take his own life, so that they were
obliged to make him work constantly in heavy irons, and, I need scarcely
add, bastinadoed and tortured him until his body became a mass of
bruises from head to foot.  They subdued him, in the course of years, to
a condition of callous and brutal indifference to everything, and at
last his great strength began to give way.  He is now considered
incapable of doing much injury to any one, and seems almost tamed.  The
Turks think that this has been brought about by sickness and starvation;
it may be partly so, but I cannot help thinking that, despite the
contempt which, in a sudden burst of passion, he poured on it just now,
religion has something to do with it, for I have noticed a considerable
change in him since he began to listen to the voice of an old man who
has been a true friend of the poor slaves since long before I came here.
The old man professes, at least he teaches, your religion; but I know
not to what sect he belongs.  Indeed, I think he belongs to none.  This,
however, am I sure of, that he holds equally by our Scriptures and your
Testament as being the whole Word of God."

The three captives listened to this narration with sinking hearts, for
it opened up a glimpse of the terrible and hopeless future that lay
before themselves, so that for some time they sat gazing in silence at
their visitor, and at the miserable beings who were devouring the last
crumbs of their black bread around them.

"I came to see you," continued Bacri, "partly to assure you of the
comparative safety of the girls who interested us all so much on board
the vessel of Sidi Hassan, and partly to say that I will do what lies in
my power to alleviate your sad condition.  With Lucien's education and
knowledge of languages, it may be possible to get him into the immediate
service of the Dey, in which case he will be able to aid his father and
brother."

"Have you, then, much influence with the Dey?" asked Francisco.

"None," replied the Jew, with a sad smile.  "I have already told you
that the pirates detest us; that we are tolerated only because of our
money-making powers, and the ease with which they can bleed us when they
want gold.  But I have some influence with others in the city who have
power to move the Dey.  There is one thing, however," here the Jew
glanced pointedly at Mariano, "in regard to which I would give you most
earnest counsel, namely, that you should at once dismiss all idea of
rebellion.  It will be utterly unavailing.  You may, like the caged
lion, if you will, dash yourselves to death against your prison bars,
but you cannot break them.  Countless thousands of bold and brave
spirits have attempted this plan, with no good result, in time past.
The Turks are well acquainted with and quite prepared for it.  Your only
chance of mitigating the woes of your condition lies in submission."

"It were better and nobler to die than to submit," said Mariano
gloomily.

"It were better and nobler to bow to the will of the Almighty than to
commit suicide," retorted Bacri, somewhat sternly.  "It is selfishness
and pride which induces us to seek deliverance from sorrow and suffering
in death.  There are men who have thought that truest nobility lay in
choosing a life in the midst of suffering and woe for the purpose of
alleviating it, and who have acted on their opinion.  This lesson,
however, is not so frequently learnt by us through precept as in the
school of sorrow."

Mariano felt abashed, yet at the same time rather nettled.

"Truly, then," he said, with a glance at his blood-stained shirt, "it
seems to me that I have at all events begun my lesson in the right
school.  However, I believe thou art right, Bacri, and I bear thee no
ill-will for the rap thou didst bestow on my skull, which, luckily, is a
thick one, else thy ponderous fist had split it from the cranium to the
chin."

"We had misjudged you, Bacri," said Francisco, extending his hand, as
the Jew rose to depart.

"We will lay your advice to heart; and we thank you, meanwhile, for
coming to see us in this foul den, which I dislike less because of
moisture and dirt--these being familiar to me--than because of the
lively reptiles which hold their nightly revels in it."

There was mingled humour and bitterness in Francisco's tone, as he
uttered this sentence, which he concluded with a heavy sigh.
Immediately after, the rusty bolts of their prison-door grated harshly
on their ears, and they listened sadly to the retreating footsteps of
one whom they now esteemed their only friend, as they died away in the
distance.



CHAPTER SEVEN.

SOME NEW CHARACTERS WALK, GLIDE, AND FURIOUSLY GALLOP INTO THE TALE, AND
OTHERWISE INTRODUCE THEMSELVES TO NOTICE.

In the interior court of a beautiful Moorish villa not far from the
city, sat Mrs Langley, wife of Colonel Langley, British consul at the
"Court" of Algiers.

The lady of whom we write was unusually romantic, for her romance
consisted of a deep undercurrent of powerful but quiet enthusiasm, with
a pretty strong surface-flow of common-sense.  Her husband was a man of
noble mind and commanding presence--a magnificent representative John
Bull, with the polish of a courtier and the principles of a Christian;
one who had been wisely chosen to fill a very disagreeable post, full of
responsibility and danger.

On a stool at the feet of Mrs Langley sat a sunny second edition of
herself, about eight years of age, named Agnes.  In the cradle which
Agnes had formerly occupied reposed a remarkably plump and dimpled
representative of the Colonel.  When respectfully addressed he was
called Jim, but he was more familiarly known as Baby.

A small negress from beyond the Zahara, and blacker than any coal,
rocked Jim violently.  For this--not the rocking, but the violence--she
had been unavailingly rebuked by Mrs Langley, until that lady's heart
had nearly lost all hope.

"There--you have done it again, Zubby," said Mrs Langley, referring to
a push that well-nigh rolled Master Jim, (as a sea-captain once said),
out at the starboard side of the cradle.

Zubby confessed her guilt, by looking abashed--and what a solemn look an
abashed one is in a negress with very large eyes!--as well as by rocking
more gently.

Agnes vented a sudden little laugh at the expression of Zubby's face;
and, the door opening at that moment, Colonel Langley entered the court,
and sat down beside his wife under the giant leaves of a small
banana-tree, whose life was drawn from a boxful of earth about three
feet square.

"My dear," said the Colonel, "I have two rather amusing things to lay
before you this evening.  One is a gift from the Dey, the other is a
letter.  Which will you have first?"

"The gift, of course," replied the lady.

"Let her come in, Ali," called the Colonel to his interpreter, who stood
in the passage outside.

Rais Ali, a Moor clad in the usual Turkish garb, but with a red fez or
skull-cap on his head instead of a turban, threw open the door leading
out of the court, and ushered in poor Paulina Ruffini with her child.

"Is _this_ the Dey's gift?" asked the astonished lady, rising hurriedly.

"It is; at least she is lent to us, and we are bound to accept her.--
Address her in French, my dear; she does not understand English.  In
fact, you'd better take her to your own room and have a talk."

Mrs Langley addressed to the poor captive a few reassuring words, and
led her away, leaving the Colonel to amuse himself with Agnes.

"What has she been sent to us for?" asked Agnes.

"To be a serv--a companion to you and baby, my pet."

"That was kind of the Dey, wasn't it?" said the child.

"Well--ye-es; oh yes, doubtless, it was very kind of him," replied the
Colonel.

We fear that the Colonel did not fully appreciate the kindness that
resulted in the gift either of Paulina Ruffini as his servant, or of
Sidi Hassan as his attendant, for he saw clearly that the former was
unaccustomed to menial work, and he knew that Sidi Hassan was a
turbulent member of the community.  However, being a man of prompt
action, and knowing that it was of the utmost importance that he should
stand well in the good graces of the Dey, he resolved to receive Paulina
into his establishment as governess of the nursery and companion to his
wife, and to leave Sidi Hassan very much to the freedom of his own will,
so long as that will did not interfere with the interests of the
consulate.

On the return of his wife he listened to her pathetic account of
Paulina's sad history, and then produced the letter to which he had
referred on first entering.

"This letter necessitates my riding into town immediately.  It is a
curious document in its way, therefore lend me your ear."

Opening it he began to read.  We give it _verbatim et literatim_:--

  "_To the brittish Cownsul algeers_.

  "7 _teenth Jully_, 18--

  "Sur i'm an irishman an a sailer an recked on the cost of boogia wid
  six of me messmaits hoo are wel an arty tho too was drowndid on landin
  an wan wos spiflikated be the moors which are born divls an no
  mistaik.  I rite to say that weer starvin but the Kaid as they cals
  the guvner Here says heel take a ransum for us of 150 spanish dolars
  the Kaid has past his word in yoor name to the moors for that sum or
  theyd hav spiflikate us too.  I hope yer onor has as much to spair in
  yer pokit, an will luke alive wid it, for if yoo don't its all up wid
  me mesmaits inkloodin yoor onors obedent humbil servint to comand ted
  flagan."

"Well, I hope, with poor Flaggan," said Mrs Langley laughingly, "that
you _have_ as much to spare in your `pokit,' for if not, it is plain
that the poor fellows will be led into captivity."

"I would readily advance a larger sum for so good an end," replied the
consul, folding the letter.  "I shall at once ride into town to make
arrangements, and as it is so late, will pass the night in our town
house.  I shall send our new attendant, Sidi Hassan, on this mission,
and leave you for the night under the guardianship of Rais Ali."

The consul left immediately, and next morning Sidi Hassan set out for
Bugia with the necessary ransom.

In regard to this we need say nothing more than that he accomplished his
purpose, paid the ransom, and received the seven British seamen,
accompanied by whom he commenced the return journey, he and his men
riding, and driving the sailors on foot before them as though they had
been criminals.  On the way, however, they were attacked, not far from
Algiers, by a body of predatory Arabs from the Jurjura mountains.

These bold villains, at the very first onset, killed more than half of
the Turkish escort, and put the rest to flight.  Six of the sailors they
captured and carried off, but Ted Flaggan, who was an exceedingly active
as well as powerful man, proved himself more than a match for them all.
During the melee he managed to throw himself in the way of one of the
best-mounted among the Arabs, who instantly charged him, but Ted sprang
aside and let him pass, ducking low to avoid a cut from his curved
sword.

Before he could turn, the Irishman ran close to his side, seized him by
the burnous, at the same time grasping his bridle, and pulled him out of
the saddle with such sudden violence that he fell headlong to the
ground, where he lay quite stunned by the fall.  Flaggan instantly
sprang into the saddle, as if he had been an accomplished cavalier,
though in reality he knew no more about horses than an Esquimaux.
However, a man who was accustomed to hold on to a top-sail-yard in a
gale was not to be easily shaken off by an Arab charger.  He clung to
the high saddle-bow with one hand, and with the other grasped his
clasp-knife, which he opened with his teeth.  Therewith he probed the
flanks of his fiery steed to such an extent that he not only distanced
all his Arab pursuers, but overtook and passed his own escort one by
one, until he reached Sidi Hassan himself.  He then attempted to pull
up, but the clasp-knife had fired the charger's blood in an unusual
degree.  With a wicked snort and fling that lifted Flaggan high out of
the saddle, it rushed madly on, left the pirate captain far behind, and
at length dashed through the Bab-Azoun gate of Algiers, despite the
frantic efforts of the guard to check or turn it.  Right onward it sped
through the street Bab-Azoun, scattering Turks, Moors, Jews, negroes,
and all the rest of them like chaff; passed the Dey's palace, straight
along the street Bab el-Oued; out at the water-gate, with similar
contempt of the guards; down into the hollow caused by the brook beyond;
up the slope on the other side, half-way towards the summit, on the
opposite side of Frais Vallon, and was not finally pulled up until it
had almost run down the British consul, who chanced to be riding
leisurely homeward at the time.

"You seem to have had a pretty sharp run, my man," said the consul,
laughing, as the Irishman thankfully jumped off, and grasped the bridle
of the now thoroughly winded horse.

"Faix an' I have, yer honour; an' if I haven't run down an' kilt half
the population o' that town, wotever's its name, no thanks to this
self-opiniated beast," replied Flaggan, giving the bridle a savage pull.

"You're an Irishman, I perceive," said the consul, smiling.

"Well, now, yer right, sur; though how ye came to persaive is more nor I
can understand."

"Where have you come from? and how in such a plight?" demanded the
consul in some surprise, observing that a troop of janissaries came
galloping up the winding road, near the top of which they stood.

"Sorrow wan o' me knows where we touched at last," replied the seaman in
some perplexity; "the names goes out o' me head like wather out of a
sieve.  All I'm rightly sure of is that I set sail four days ago from a
port they calls Boogee, or so'thin' like it, in company with a man
called Seedy Hassan; an' sure he'd ha bin seedy enough be now if his
horse hadn't bin a good 'un, for we wos attacked, and half his party
killed and took, forby my six messmates; but--"

"Your name is Ted Flaggan?" inquired the consul hastily.

"It is," said the seaman, in great surprise; "sure yer honour must be--"

The sentence was cut short by the arrival of the janissaries, who pulled
up with looks of considerable astonishment on finding the mad fugitive
engaged in quiet conversation with the British consul.

"Gentlemen," said Colonel Langley, with much urbanity of tone and
manner, "I suppose you wish to make a prisoner of this man?"

The soldiers admitted that such was their desire and intention.

"Then you will oblige me," continued the Colonel, "by allowing me to be
his jailer in the meantime.  He is a British subject, of whom I can give
a good account at the fitting time and place.  Sidi Hassan, under whose
charge he has been by my orders, will doubtless soon arrive in town, and
further enlighten you on this subject."

Without waiting for a reply the Colonel bowed, and wheeling his horse
round rode quietly away, followed by the Irishman, who regarded his new
jailer with a very puzzled look, while a touch of humour further tended
to wrinkle his remarkably expressive countenance.



CHAPTER EIGHT.

TED FLAGGAN AND RAIS ALI PROCEED ON A MISSION, AND SEE IMPRESSIVE
SIGHTS.

Two days after the events narrated in the last chapter, Mrs Langley,
being seated on her favourite couch in the court under the small
banana-tree, sent Zubby into the garden to command the attendance of Ted
Flaggan.  That worthy was gifted with a rare capacity for taking the
initiative in all things, when permitted to do so, and had instituted
himself in the consul's mansion as assistant gardener, assistant cook
and hostler, assistant footman and nurseryman, as well as general
advice-giver and factotum, much to the amusement of all concerned, for
he knew little of anything, but was extremely good-humoured, helpful,
and apart from advice-giving--modest.

"Flaggan," said Mrs Langley, when the stout seaman appeared, hat in
hand, "I want you to accompany our interpreter, Rais Ali, into town, to
bring out a message from a gentleman named Sidi Omar.  Ali himself has
other duties to attend to, and cannot return till evening, so take
particular note of the way, lest you should miss it in returning."

"I will, ma'am," replied Ted, with a forecastle bow, "Does Mister Ally
onderstand English?"

"Oh yes," returned Mrs Langley, with a laugh.  "I forgot that he was
absent when you arrived.  You will find that he understands all you say
to him, though I'm not quite sure that you will understand all he says
to you.  Like some of the other Moors here, he has been in the British
navy, and has acquired a knowledge of English.  You'll find him a
pleasant companion, I doubt not.  Be so good as to tell him that I wish
to see him before he leaves."

Obedient to the summons, Rais Ali quickly appeared.  The interpreter was
a stout, tall, dignified man of about thirty-five, with a great deal of
self-assertion, and a dash of humour expressed in his countenance.

"Ali," said Mrs Langley, "you are aware that Sidi Omar is to be married
to-morrow.  I have been invited to the wedding, but have stupidly
forgotten the hour at which I was asked to see the bride dressed.  Will
you go to Sidi Omar, or some of his people, and find this out?  Take the
sailor, Mr Flaggan, with you, and send him back with the information as
soon as possible."

"Yis, mum," replied the interpreter; "an' please, mum, I was want too,
tree days' leave of absins."

"No doubt Colonel Langley will readily grant your request.  Have you
some particular business to transact, or do you merely desire a
holiday?"

"Bof," replied the Moor, with a mysterious smile.  "I'se got finished
the partikler bizziness of bein' spliced yesterdays, an' I wants littil
holiday."

"Indeed," said Mrs Langley in surprise, "you have been very quiet about
it."

"Ho yis, wery quiet."

"Where is your bride, Ali?  I should like so much to see her."

"Her's at 'ome, safe," said Rais Ali, touching a formidable key which
was stuck in his silken girdle.

"What! have you locked her up?"

"Yis--'bleeged to do so for keep her safe."

"Not alone, I hope?" said Mrs Langley.

"No, not 'lone.  Her's got a bootiflul cat, an' I means buy her a little
nigger boy soon."

Having arranged that Mrs Langley was to visit his bride on her way to
Sidi Omar's wedding the following day, Rais Ali set out on his mission,
accompanied by Mr Flaggan.

The Irishman soon discovered that the Moor was a conceited coxcomb and a
barefaced boaster, and ere long began to suspect that he was an arrant
coward.  He was, however, good-humoured and chatty, and Ted, being in
these respects like-minded, rather took a fancy to him, and slily
encouraged his weakness.

"Ye must have seed a power o' sarvice in the navy, now," he said, with
an air of interest; "how came you to git into it?"

"Ha! that wos cos o' me bein' sitch a strong, good-lookin' feller,"
replied Ali, with an air of self-satisfaction.

"Just so," said Flaggan; "but it's not common to hear of Moors bein'
taken aboard our men o' war, d'ee see.  It's that as puzzles me."

"Oh, that's easy to 'splain," returned Ali.  "The fac' is, I'd bin for
sev'l year aboord a Maltese trader 'tween Meddrainean an' Liverp'l, and
got so like a English tar you coodn't tell the one fro' the oder.  Spok
English, too, like natif."

"Ha!" exclaimed Ted, nodding his head gravely--"well?"

"Well, one night w'en we was all sleeperin' in port, in a 'ouse on
shore, the press-gang comes round an' nabs the whole of us.  We fight
like lions.  I knock seven men down, one before the tother, 'cause of
bein' very strong, an' had learn to spar a littil.  You know how to
spar?"

"Well," returned Ted, looking with a smile at his huge hands, "I can't
go for to say as I know much about the science of it, d'ee see; but I
can use my fists after a fashion."

"Good," continued the Moor.  "Well, then, we fights till all our eyes is
black, an' all our noses is red, an' some of our teeths is out, but the
sailirs wos too many for us.  We wos 'bleeged to gif in, for wot kin
courage do agin numbers? so we wos took aboord a friggit and 'zamined."

"An' what?" asked the seaman.

"'Zamined.  Overhauled," replied the Moor.

"Oh! examined, I see.  Well?"

"Well, I feels sure of git hoff, bein' a Algerine Moor, so w'en my turn
comes, I says to the hofficer wot 'zamined us, says I, `I's not a
Breetish man!'

"`Wot are you, then?' says the hofficer.

"`I's a Moor,' says I.

"`Moor's the pity,' says he."

Ted gave a short laugh at this.

"Now, that's strange," observed Ali, glancing at his companion in some
surprise; "that's 'zactly wot they all did, w'en the hofficer says that!
I've thought oftin 'bout it since, but never could see wot they laugh
at."

"Oh, it's just a way we've got," returned Flaggan, resuming his gravity;
"the English have a knack o' larfin', off and on, w'en they shouldn't
ought to.--Git along with your yarn."

"Well, that wos the finish.  I became a Breetish tar, an' fouted in all
the battils of the navy.  I 'spected to get promotion an' prize-money,
but nivir git none, 'cause of circumstances as wos never 'splained to
me.  Well, one night we come in our friggit to anchor in bay of Algiers.
I gits leave go ashore wi' tothers, runs right away to our Dey, who
gits awrful waxy, sends for Breetish cap'n, 'splain that I's the son of
a Turk by a Algerine moder an' wery nigh or'er the cap'n's head to be
cutted off."

"You don't say so?"

"Yis, it's troo.  Wery near declare war with England acause of that,"
said Ali, with an air of importance.  "But the Breetish consul he
interfere, goes down on hims knees, an' beg the Dey for to parding hims
nation."

"He must ha' bin a cowardly feller, that consul!"

"No," said the interpreter sternly, "him's not coward.  Him was my
master, Kurnil Langley, an' only do the right ting: humbil hisself to
our Dey w'en hims contry do wrong.--Now, here we is comin' to
Bab-el-Oued, that means the Water-gate in yoor lingo, w'ere the peepils
hold palaver."

This in truth appeared to be the case, for many of the chief men of the
city were seated under and near the gate, as the two drew near, smoking
their pipes and gossiping in the orthodox Eastern style.

The big Irishman attracted a good deal of notice as he passed through
the gates; but Turks are grave and polite by nature: no one interrupted
him or made audible comments upon his somewhat wild and unusual
appearance.

Passing onwards, they entered the town and traversed the main street
towards the Bab-Azoun gate, which Ali explained to his companion was the
Gate of Tears, and the place of public execution.

Here they came suddenly on the body of a man, the feet and limbs of
which were dreadfully mangled, showing that the miserable wretch had
perished under the bastinado.

At the time we write of, and indeed at all times during Turkish rule,
human life was held very cheap.  For the slightest offences, or
sometimes at the mere caprice of those in power, men were taken up and
bastinadoed in the open streets until they died from sheer agony, and
their relations did not dare to remove the bodies for burial until their
tyrants had left the scene.  Cruelty became almost the second nature of
the people.  Theft was checked by the amputation of the first joint of
the fore-finger of the right hand for the first offence.  For the
second, the whole hand was sacrificed, and for the third, the head
itself was forfeited.  Sometimes, in cases of capital punishment,
decapitation was performed by degrees! and other refinements too
horrible to mention were constantly practised.

While the interpreter was explaining to his companion as much of this as
he deemed it right for him to know, several of the sorrowing relations
of the dead man came forward and carried the body away.  Little notice
was taken of the incident, which, from beginning to end, scarcely
interrupted the general flow of business.

At the Bab-Azoun gate, which occupied a position not many yards distant
from the spot on which now stands the principal theatre of Algiers, Ali
left Ted Flaggan for a few minutes, begging him to wait until he had
transacted a piece of business in the market held just outside the gate.

"Tell me before ye go, Ally, what may be the use of them three big hooks
close to the gate," said Flaggan, pointing upwards.

"Them's for throwin' down teeves an' murderers on to.--You stay here; me
not be wery long come back."

Rais Ali hurried away, leaving the sailor to observe and moralise on all
that passed around him.  And there was a good deal to induce thought in
one who had been accustomed to comparatively humane laws and merciful
dispensations in his native land, for, besides the scene which he had
just witnessed, and the huge hooks whose uses had just been explained to
him, he now noticed that several conspicuous places near him were
garnished with the heads of malefactors who had been recently executed.
He observed, also, that the innumerable donkeys which were being
constantly driven past him, overladen with market produce, were covered
with open sores, and that these sores appeared to be selected for
special flagellation when the brutal drivers wished to urge the wretched
creatures on.

He stood thus for some time watching with interest the throng of Turks,
Jews, Moors, negroes, and others that continually streamed to and fro,
some on foot, some on horseback, and others, especially the men with
marketable commodities, on mules and donkeys.  It was not difficult for
him to distinguish between the races, for Rais Ali had already told him
that none but Turks were permitted to wear the turban, not even the sons
of Turks by Algerine mothers, and that the Jews were by law commanded to
dress in sombre black.

Suddenly he observed a body of men advancing towards the gate, carrying
something in their arms, and followed by an orderly crowd at a
respectful distance.  With the curiosity of an idler he approached, and
found that they bore a man, who was firmly bound hand and foot.  The man
was a Moor, and the anxious look of his pale face showed that he was
about to suffer punishment of some kind.

The seaman mingled with the crowd and looked on.

Laying the man on the ground with his face downwards, the officers of
justice sent away two of their number, who speedily returned with a
blacksmith's anvil and forehammer.  On this they placed one of their
victim's ankles, and Flaggan now saw, with a sickening heart, that they
were about to break it with the ponderous hammer.  One blow sufficed to
crush the bones in pieces, and drew from the man an appalling shriek of
agony.  Pushing his leg farther on the anvil, the executioner broke it
again at the shin, while the other officials held the yelling victim
down.  A third blow was then delivered on the knee, but the shriek that
followed was suddenly cut short in consequence of the man having
fainted.  Still the callous executioner went on with his horrible task,
and, breaking the leg once more at the thigh, proceeded to go through
the same process with the other leg, and also with the arms.  When
twelve blows had thus been delivered, the writhing of the wretched
victim proved that he was still alive, though his labouring chest was
now incapable of giving vent to his agony in shrieks.

We would not describe such a scene as this were it not certainly true;
and we relate it, reader, not for the purpose of harrowing your
feelings, but for the sake of showing what diabolical deeds we men are
capable of, unless guarded therefrom by the loving and tender _spirit_
of Jesus Christ.  We say "spirit" advisedly, for we are well aware that
false professors of that blessed name have, many a time, committed deeds
even more horrible than that which we have just described.

Unable to bear the sight longer, the sailor turned and hurried away from
the spot.

Fortunately he met Rais Ali just outside the crowd.

"Come, lad, come," he cried, seizing that boastful man by the arm, in
such a grasp that Rais turned pale with alarm.  "I can't stop here.
Let's git away.  Sure it's divls they must be, an' not men!"

Blindly dragging the interpreter along by main force through several
streets, Flaggan stopped suddenly at last to recover breath and to wipe
the perspiration from his brow.

"Don't ask me wot I've seen," he said, to Ali's inquiries, "I can't
a-bear to think on it.  God help me!  I wish I could wipe it out of me
brain intirely.  Come along, let's finish our business, an' git out o'
this cursed place."

Proceeding rapidly and in silence towards the street at the base of the
triangular town, which followed the line of ramparts that faced the sea,
they discovered the great man of whom they were in search, Sidi Omar,
walking up and down with the cadi, or chief judge, to whose daughter he
was to be united on the following day.

"It won't do to 'trupt 'em jus' yit.  Hold on a littil," said Rais Ali
to his companion.

Ted Flaggan had no objection to "hold on," for the sight of the ocean
with its fresh breezes cooled his brow, and tended to turn his mind away
from the horrible thoughts that filled it.

While they are waiting, let you and me, reader, listen to the conclusion
of the converse held between the bridegroom and father-in-law.

The cadi was a stern old Turk, with a long grey beard.  The son-in-law
elect was, as we have elsewhere said, an ill-favoured elderly man with
only one eye.  He did not look quite so happy as one would have expected
in a bridegroom so near his wedding-day, but that was to be accounted
for, to some extent, by the fact that he already possessed four wives,
and was naturally somewhat used to weddings.

"No, no," said he, in a cautious tone, to the judge; "it won't do to be
hasty about it, Achmet is too popular at present."

"What has that to do with the question?" asked the cadi, in a tone of
contempt.  "If our party be strong enough we have only to strike; and I
tell you that I believe it to be quite strong enough."

"I know it," returned Omar impatiently, "but I also know that my enemy,
Sidi Hassan, is more than usually on the alert just now; I think it well
to delay for a time.  Besides," he added, smiling, "you surely would not
have me begin a revolution on the very eve of my marriage!"

"I would have you lose as little time as possible," replied the cadi.
"But see, if I mistake not, these two men are eyeing us rather
narrowly."

Seeing that they were observed, Rais Ali advanced, and, with a low
salaam, delivered his message to Sidi Omar, who gave him the necessary
reply, and dismissed him.

Resuming their conference, the two magnates turned to saunter along the
street, when Omar observed a dark object like a dog, coiled up in an
angle of the parapet.  Poking it with his cane, he caused it to uncoil
and display the vacant, features of a half-witted negro boy.  The poor
creature fell on his knees in alarm on seeing the well-known face of
Sidi Omar, but sprang to his feet with alacrity, and ran off at full
speed on being sternly told to "be gone."

Meanwhile Rais Ali led his friend safely through the Bab-el-Oued gate,
and, turning his face in the right direction said--

"Now, you git 'ome, fast.  Keep 'er steady--a point morer to the
westward--so, yoo can't go wrong."

Instead of obeying orders, Ted Flaggan turned, and, with an amused
smile, watched the retreating figure of the interpreter.  Then, after
sauntering on some distance in a reverie, he stopped and gazed long and
earnestly at the pirate city, whose white-washed domes and minarets
gleamed in the sunshine like marble, contrasting beautifully with the
bright green of the Sahel hills behind, and the intense blue of the sky
and sea.

"A whited sepulchre!" muttered the seaman, with a frown, as he turned
away and pushed forward at a rapid pace towards the residence of the
British consul.



CHAPTER NINE.

DESCRIBES A MOORISH BRIDE, A WEDDING, AND A METAMORPHOSIS, BESIDES
INDICATING A PLOT.

On the following morning Mrs Langley set out on horseback for the
palace of the cadi, to attend the wedding of his daughter with Sidi
Omar, and, true to her promise, turned aside on the way to pay a visit
to the imprisoned bride of Rais Ali.

She was accompanied, of course, by the remarkable bridegroom himself,
and also by her husband's janissary, Sidi Hassan, as well as by her
daughter Agnes, who rode a spirited Arab pony.

Immediately on entering the gate of the city, Rais and the ladies
dismounted, and leaving their horses in charge of a groom, ascended on
foot one of the narrow streets of the town.  So steep was this street
that it consisted of a flight of broad steps, which led ultimately to
the casba, or citadel, at the upper part of the town.  But before they
had ascended it very far, the interpreter diverged into a cross street,
which was much narrower.  It terminated in a _cul-de-sac_, at the bottom
of which stood the door of Rais Ali's town residence.

And a remarkable door it was, made of thick oaken planks, studded with
enormous nails, the heads of which were as large as a half-crown.  Just
above it there was a square hole grated with thick iron bars, which
served to enlighten the gloomy passage within.

Applying the key before mentioned to this door, Rais threw it open and
bade the visitors enter.

Having carefully shut and re-locked the door, the interpreter led them
through a narrow passage, which terminated in the usual square court of
Moorish houses.  This was very small, and, like all such courts, had no
roof, so that a pleasant gleam of sunshine flickered through the
creepers which twined up its pillars and gleamed on the drops that fell
from a tinkling fountain in the centre.

Entering an open doorway on the right of the court, the interpreter led
the way up a flight of marble steps to the second storey of the house.
A small gallery, such as one sees in public libraries in England, ran
round the four sides of the building over the balustrade, of which one
could look down on the leafy court with its ever singing _jet d'eau_.
The windows of the several private, apartments opened upon this gallery.

In the centre of one side of the square was a large open doorway, in the
form of a Moorish arch, by which entrance was obtained into a little
extremely ornate apartment.  The dome-shaped roof of this boudoir was
lighted by four little holes filled with stained-glass, and the walls
were covered with beautifully painted tiles.  Rich ornaments of various
Eastern and fanciful kinds were strewn about, and valuable Persian rugs
covered the marble floor.

On an ottoman, in the centre of all, sat Rais Ali's bride, cross-legged,
and on a cushion before her lay the cat, her only companion.

She was clothed in garments of the richest description, which glittered
with gold embroidery and jewels.  Seated thus, stroking the cat, and
with a self-satisfied smile on her fat pretty face, she seemed the very
personification of contentment.  Her soft brown neck was almost hidden
with rows of pearls, and long rows of the same jewels depended from the
high filigree cap which towered above her head.  Her dress consisted of
three open jackets or short caftans, one above the other, without
sleeves.  These were profusely garnished with gold lace, and fastened
only at the waist.  White linen trousers or drawers covered her limbs to
the ankles, but these were so immensely wide as to bear more resemblance
to female drapery than to the masculine appendages which their name
suggests.  A silken, gold-striped shawl was fastened by two corners
round her waist, and hung down in front like an apron.  Sleeves of fine
embroidered muslin and of great width covered her arms.  Her little feet
and ankles were bare, but the latter were ornamented with several thick
gold leglets.  In each ear she wore five large round ear-rings, two of
these fitting into two holes in the lower, and three into the upper part
of the ear.  One awkward result of this was that the upper ear-rings
pulled the ears down, and made them pendent like those of a poodle!

The visitors having been introduced, Madam Rais Ali received them with a
good-humoured stare, but said nothing.  Mrs Langley then tried to
engage her in conversation, but Mrs Ali continued to stare and smile
without speaking, for the good reason that she understood neither French
nor English.  Requesting Ali to interpret, Mrs Langley then put one or
two questions.  The bride turned her large dark eyes on her husband
while he was speaking, and then, instead of replying, turned them on her
visitors and laughed.  Whereupon little Agnes, unable to control
herself, also laughed; this unhinged Mrs Langley, who laughed likewise,
and Rais Ali followed suit from sympathy.

After this satisfactory ebullition, Mrs Langley again essayed to induce
conversation, but beyond yes, no, and a laugh, she could draw forth
nothing whatever from the bride, whose mind, in regard to all things
terrestrial, with the exception of household affairs, was a perfect
blank.  Mohammedan females are treated by their lords like babies.  They
receive no education worthy of the name, and are therefore apt to be
childish in their ideas.

After one or two fruitless attempts, the visitors took leave of the
happy bride, who was thereupon locked up again by her jealous husband,
and left to her own resources and the cat.

Returning to the place where their steeds had been left, the party
re-mounted, and proceeded to the palace of the cadi.

This palace, being situated in one of the narrow lanes of the town, had
a very undignified and dull exterior.  Indeed, no one could have
imagined it to be a palace, but for the spiral columns of marble and
other rich and costly carving around the entrance.  Inside, however, the
aspect of things was more in keeping with the dignity of the owner.

The lady and her daughter were ushered into a little square hall, in
which several guards were seated, cross-legged, on small stone seats or
niches round the walls, smoking long pipes.  Beyond this was the
principal entrance-hall or antechamber of the palace.  It was gorgeous
in marble pillars, stucco designs, horse-shoe arches, and other
Mooresque decorations.  Here a large party of officials and friends were
moving about.  Beyond this, they came to the square court, which is the
same in general arrangements, in all Moorish houses, though, of course,
not in size or luxury of detail.

Here the cadi himself met his guests, and conducted them to the suite of
chambers on the second storey, which were devoted to the ladies.  At the
principal entrance to these they were received by the cadi's wife, and,
with much display of friendliness and affection, were conducted into the
harem--that mysterious retreat which, in a Mohammedan household, is
never entered by mortal man, except the lord thereof.

It was Mrs Langley's first visit to such a scene, and, although she had
been prepared for something magnificent, the gorgeous nature of
everything far surpassed her expectations.  The rooms, indeed, were
small, being, like those of all Moorish dwellings, rather long and
narrow, with recesses or antechambers.  Some of these latter had
dome-shaped roofs, with little coloured glass skylights, such as we have
already described, and were delightfully snug retreats.  The walls and
ceilings of all the apartments were profusely ornamented, and the
hangings and furniture were of the richest material.

On a silken couch, at the farther end of one of these small apartments,
sat the bride, Zara, youngest daughter of the cadi, and a lovely girl of
nineteen.  Poor Zara!  Her history--not by any means an uncommon one in
that land--goes to prove that Mohammedan women, far more than English,
have need of a "Women's Rights Society."

Zara was already a widow with two beautiful children!  Her first
husband, to whom she had been married without her inclination being
consulted, had been strangled.

It was afterwards proved that he was innocent of the crime for which he
had suffered, but that gave very little pain to the consciences of those
who had strangled him, partly because their consciences were callous,
and partly because they regarded the event as one of the decrees of
"Fate."

After his death it became necessary that another husband should be found
for Zara.  She, poor creature, would have been thankful to have remained
in a state of widowed felicity; but this was not deemed proper by her
wealthy relatives.  Of course it was not difficult to find a suitor
where a pretty girl was the hook, and a large dower the bait.  Sidi Omar
came forward, and all the relatives said that it was an excellent
match--all save one, Zara's eldest sister, Hanyfa.

Hanyfa was--to speak plainly--a bad girl.  She was one of the wives of a
great officer of state--in other words, a particularly noted pirate--
named Sidi Hamet.  Now, Hamet was the Aga or commander-in-chief of the
cavalry.  He was an ambitious man, and a rival of Sidi Omar in this
respect.  Of course he hated Omar, and so did his wife Hanyfa, hence her
objection to him as her sister's husband.  But neither she nor Hamet
could stay the marriage; they therefore made up their minds to endure
it.

One thing that struck and surprised Mrs Langley was the extreme
fairness of many of the Moorish ladies; some of whom were quite as fair
as Europeans, and very beautiful, with much finer eyes than those of the
more northern belles.

Having laid aside the shroud-like veils which Moorish ladies wear when
exposed to the slightest chance of meeting the gaze of man, they now
stood confessed in all the magnificence of Oriental taste.  It is
impossible to describe the dazzling splendour of the jewels with which
their costumes absolutely blazed; especially those in the little golden
caps, or salmas, which some of them wore.  There were bouquets of roses,
jessamine, peacock's-feathers, and butterflies, formed of diamonds,
rubies, emeralds, and other precious gems.  We do not draw on our
imagination here, good reader.  It is probable that if a comparison had
been instituted, these pirates could have far outshone any court of
Europe in the matter of jewellery.

Of course no gentlemen were present.  It is one of the drawbacks of
Mohammedan female life that the ladies can never enjoy the satisfaction
of displaying themselves to male admirers, with the exception of
husbands, fathers, and brothers.  How far the display of themselves to
each other is attended with pleasure remains a doubtful point--
especially when we consider that jealousy has not yet been quite
eradicated from the female human breast.

However, on the occasion of which we write, most of the assembled ladies
appeared to be highly delighted with each other.  They were all very
merry too, and, being little better than children as regards
intellectual training, they were particularly childlike in their
merriment.

As the wife of the British consul was a lady of some importance just
then, (the consul being high in favour with the Dey), she was received
with becoming ceremony, and conducted to a seat next the bride.  This
seat, like the seats of Orientals in general, was simply a cushion laid
on the marble floor.  Seating herself with some difficulty in the
Moorish fashion, she proceeded to pay some compliments to the bride in
English and French, but as Zara knew neither of these languages, she
shook her head, smiled, and returned some compliments in Turkish;
whereupon Mrs Langley shook her head and smiled.  The rest of the
company, from infection probably, nodded to each other also, and smiled.
Two or three pretty young and rather stout girls turned aside, and went
the length of giggling.

Fortunately at this point an interpreter was brought forward in the
person of an Italian slave, a good-looking middle-aged lady, who
understood French, and who, during a servitude of ten years, had also
acquired Turkish.

Compliments were now bandied to and fro with great volubility, without
any introductory references to weather, and much notice was taken of
little Agnes, whose appearance was the cause of some good-natured
criticism among the Algerine belles.  As the costume of these latter,--
with much variety in colour and detail,--bore strong general resemblance
to that of the bride of Rais Ali, it is not necessary to describe it
more minutely.

Coffee and sweetmeats were now served, the former in exquisitely
delicate porcelain cups, so small that they might have been easily
mistaken for part of a doll's establishment.  They had neither handles
nor saucers, and were prevented from burning the fingers by being
inserted into what we may style egg-cups of beautiful gold and silver
filigree.  The coffee was too thick to suit the European palate, being
ground in a fashion peculiar to the Moors.  It was also too sweet.

There was present a younger sister of the bride, who had not only a
tendency, but had already attained in an unusual degree, to the
possession of _embonpoint_ and was appropriately named Fatma.  She wore
the salma, a dazzling little golden cap, in token of being still
unmarried.  She seemed much captivated with little Agnes.  No wonder,
for, in the simplicity of a pure white dress, and with her fair curls
streaming down her cheeks, unadorned save by one little blush rose, she
looked like an ethereal spirit dropped into the midst of the garish
party.

Fatma got up suddenly and whispered to her mother.

"My little girl," said the Moorish lady, through the interpreter,
"thinks your daughter would look _so_ pretty in our costume."

"I have no doubt she would," replied Mrs Langley, glancing with some
pride at Agnes.

"She asks if you will allow her to be dressed just now in the Moorish
fashion."

"If there is sufficient time," said Mrs Langley, with an amused smile.

"Oh, plenty of time," cried Fatma, who immediately seized the not
unwilling Agnes by the hand, and ran off with her.

Opposite to Zara sat her sister Hanyfa, who looked pretty and innocent
enough just then, though Mrs Langley was struck by her look of superior
intelligence, and a certain sharpness of glance which might almost have
been styled suspicious.

The consul's lady was about to address her, but was interrupted by the
entrance of several dancing-women, who immediately claimed the undivided
attention of the company.

One of these carried a sort of guitar, another an earthenware drum
covered at one end with parchment, and a third a large tambourine, while
a fourth prepared to dance.

Of the dancing we need say little.  It was unworthy of the name.  There
was little motion of the feet, and a good deal of waving of a kerchief
held in each hand.  The music was still less worthy of note; its chief
feature being noise.  Nevertheless, the Moorish ladies, knowing no
better, enjoyed it extremely, and Mrs Langley enjoyed it
sympathetically.  These women were professionals, the ladies themselves
taking no part in the dancing.

After this the bride ascended by steps to one of the shelves or stone
recesses, which formed convenient sofas or couches round the walls of
the apartment, and there, seated on cushions, submitted to be arrayed in
bridal apparel.  None but a lady's pen could do full justice to her
stupendous toilet.  We shall therefore do no more than state that the
ludicrously high head-dress, in particular, was a thing of unimaginable
splendour, and that her ornaments generally were so heavy as to render
her incapable of walking without support.

While this was going on in the chamber of state, a very different, but
not less remarkable, transformation was being wrought in Fatma's own
private apartment, where she and several of her Algerine companions,
assisted by a coal-black slave-girl, named Zooloo, converted innocent
little Agnes into a Moor.

Of course conversation with the heroine of the hour was impossible, but
this mattered, little to Agnes, for she could converse quite powerfully
with her eyes, and her young friends chattered more than enough among
themselves.

Standing over her with a formidable pair of scissors, and grasping her
front hair with her left hand, the coal-black Zooloo said--

"Stand still, you white thing, till I perform my duty."

Of course she said it only by her looks; and Agnes quite understood her.

Next moment a whole cluster of golden ringlets fell to the ground.  For
one moment Agnes's eyes and mouth resembled three round O's.  She felt
that something telling had been done, and thoughts of her mother flashed
into her mind, but Fatma's pretty little round face, with no eyes to
speak of owing to laughter, caused her to smile and then to laugh
heartily.

Having brushed the front hair over her forehead, and cut it straight
across, the energetic Zooloo next painted her eyebrows black with a
substance called kohl, causing them to meet over her nose in the most
approved form of Algerine elegance.  Then she dyed her nails and the
palms of her hands dark-red with another substance named henna.  The
first of these takes about a week to remove, and the last can be got rid
of only by the growth of the nail.  Agnes was not aware of this, else
she might have objected.  They finished up the adornment of the face by
sticking it all over with gold spangles.

"Now you look lovely," said Zooloo--with her eyes--stepping back and
surveying her as a painter might his _chef-d'oeuvre_.

"Do I?  How nice!" replied Agnes.

Then the whole party broke into a chorus of laughter, and running to a
wardrobe tumbled out a mass of richly embroidered garments--in silk,
satin, muslin, damask, fine linen, and gold, that would have stocked at
least half a dozen European families with charading material for life.

From this heap were selected and put on a lovely pair of fair linen
drawers, of that baggy kind peculiar to Algerine ladies; also an
exquisite little caftan, or sleeveless jacket, of scarlet cloth, so
covered with gold lace that scarcely any of the scarlet was visible;
likewise a perfect gem of a cap of gold, not bigger than Agnes's own
hand, which Fatma put on in a coquettish style, very much to one side of
the head; saying, (with her eyes), as she did so, and laughing heartily
the while--

"You're not married yet, of course?"

To which Agnes replied, also with her eyes, innocently--

"No, not yet, but I hope to be soon."  Whereupon the whole party laughed
immoderately and said, each one with her eyes--

"There can't be the smallest doubt whatever upon _that_ point!"

At this point they were interrupted by the entrance of Hanyfa, but that
lady, far from damping their ardour, took particular pleasure in
assisting.  By her advice they cut off a good deal more of the flaxen
hair, and deepened the dye on the eyebrows, nails, and palms.
Gradually, however, Hanyfa drew the negress Zooloo from the scene of
action, and entered into a very earnest conversation in whispers, quite
unheeded by the riotous youngsters.  There seemed to be a pretty good
understanding between these unusually intelligent females, if one might
judge from the nods and winks and knowing smiles which passed between
them; but their confabulation was cut short by the completion of the
toilet.

Many other things of rare value and beauty, which we cannot afford space
to mention, were put upon Agnes, and then she was led by the hand into
the presence of her mamma!

To say that Mrs Langley was dumbfounded is but a feeble way of
expressing the state of her mind.  Although a lady of great moral
courage, and accustomed from infancy to self-control, she felt, on first
beholding her timid little daughter, strongly disposed to seize Fatma by
the hair of the head, and use her as a bludgeon wherewith to fell her
Algerine mother; but, remembering the dignity of her position as, in
some sort, a reflected representative of the British Empire in these
parts, and also recalling to mind the aptitude of Algerine gentlemen to
tie up in sacks and drown obstreperous Algerine ladies, she restrained
herself, bit her lips, and said nothing.

Fortunately at that moment it became necessary to conduct the bride to
her future lord's apartment, which, for the time, was in another part of
the same mansion.

To the cry of "Lai! lai! lella!" which was meant to express great joy,
and was always raised at Moorish weddings, the guests conducted poor
Zara to her "fate."

That evening Hanyfa sat at the feet of her lord, Sidi Hamet, and watched
the curls of smoke which, arising from the bowl of his magnificent
hookah, rolled like cannon-wreaths from beneath his frowning and no less
magnificent moustache.

"Zooloo is a smart girl," said Hamet, referring to something that had
just been said.

"She is," assented Hanyfa.

"You are sure she cannot have misunderstood?" asked Hamet.

"Quite sure.  Dressed as a boy, she lay close to their feet at the time
in an angle of the wall near the Djama Djedid, and overheard every word
distinctly."

"Good," said the Aga of cavalry, venting a sigh of relief, which
propelled a miniature gunshot half-way across the room; "that enables me
to decide the course which I shall pursue, and gives us a little
breathing-time before entering on the final act of the play."



CHAPTER TEN.

SHOWS WHAT LESSONS WERE TAUGHT IN THE BAGNIO, AND DESCRIBES A BRAVE DASH
FOR FREEDOM.

Bacri, the chief of the Jews, proved as good as his word.

By means of a golden lever he moved some one, who moved some one else,
who moved the Dey to make certain inquiries about the slaves in the
Bagnio, which resulted in his making the discovery that Lucien Rimini
was a first-rate linguist and an excellent scribe.

Immediately he was commanded to fill the office of scrivano to the Dey--
that post being vacant in consequence of the previous secretary having
given his master some offence, for which he had had his head cut off.

But Lucien's elevation did not necessarily improve the condition of his
father and brother.  The Dey cared only for those slaves who made
themselves useful to him; their relations he utterly ignored, unless
they succeeded in gaining his regard.  The Sicilians had too much
common-sense to expect any great immediate advantage from the change,
nevertheless, the slight hope which had been aroused by this event
enabled the two who were left in the Bagnio to endure their lot with
greater fortitude and resignation.  As for Lucien, he resolved to win
the Dey's esteem in order to be able to influence him in favour of his
father and brother.

"We must learn to submit, my son," said Francisco, one evening, while he
and Mariano were finishing the last crumbs of the black bread which
constituted their morning and evening meals.

"I admit it, father," said Mariano, with a long-drawn sigh.  "Bacri was
right; but it's not easy to bear.  For myself, I think I could stand
their insults and their lash better if they would only spare you, but
when I see the villains strike you as they did to-day--oh, father!"--
Mariano flushed and clenched his hands--"it makes me so wild that I feel
as though the blood would burst my veins.  You cannot wonder that I find
it impossible to submit."

"God bless you, boy," said Francisco, laying his hand on the youth's
shoulder; "I understand your feelings--nevertheless it were well that
you learned to restrain them, for rebellion only works evil.  You saw
what was the consequence of your attacking the man who struck me
to-day--you got knocked down and bastinadoed, and I--"

Francisco paused.

"Yes, go on, father, I know what you mean."

"Well, I would not hurt your feelings by mentioning it--as you say, you
know what I mean."

"You mean," said Mariano, "that in consequence of my violence they gave
you an additional flogging.  True, father, true; and _that_ is the one
thing that will now enable me to suffer in silence."

At this point in the conversation they were interrupted by a deep groan
from a young man in the cell opposite, which was prolonged into an
appalling cry.

Most of the slaves in the foul den had finished their meagre meal and
lain down on the hard floors to seek, in heavy slumber, the repose which
was essential to fit them for the toils of the coming day.

Some of them awoke and raised themselves on their elbows, but sank back
again on seeing that nothing particular had occurred.  A few who had
been rendered callous by their sufferings did not take the trouble to
move, but Francisco and Mariano rose and hastened to the man, supposing
him to have fallen into a fit.  Mariano moved with difficulty owing to
the chains, upwards of sixty pounds weight, which he wore as a
punishment for his recent violence.

"Go--go back to your rest," said the man, who lay with clenched teeth
and hands, as Francisco kneeled beside him, "there is nothing the matter
with me."

"Nay, friend, you are mistaken," said Francisco, taking his hand kindly;
"your look, and that perspiration on your brow, tell me that something
is the matter with you.  Let me call our jailer, and--"

"Call our jailer!" exclaimed the young man, with a fierce laugh; "d'you
think that he'd take any notice of a sick slave?  No, when we get sick
we are driven out to work till we get well.  If we don't get well, we
are left to die."

"Surely, surely not!" said Francisco.

"Surely not!" repeated the young man.  "Look; look there!"

He pointed as he spoke to the old man who lay on his back at full length
in the recess next to his own.

"See.  He is a free man now!  I knew he was to be released to-night.  I
have seen many and many a one set free thus since I came here."

Francisco was horrified, on going to the place where the old man lay, to
find that he was dead.  He had observed him tottering and looking very
feeble at his work in the stone-quarries that day, but in his own misery
had forgotten him since returning to the Bagnio.

"Too true!" he said, returning to the young man; "his troubles are
indeed ended; but tell me what is it that ails thyself."

"'Tis memory," said the young man, raising himself on his elbow, and
gazing sadly into Francisco's face.  "Your conversation to-night for a
moment aroused memories which I have long sought to stifle.--Lad," he
said, laying a hand impressively on Mariano's arm, "take the advice that
Bacri gave you.  I was once as you are.  I came here--years ago--with a
father like thine; but he was an older and a feebler man.  Like you, I
fought against our fate with the ferocity of a wild beast, and they
tortured me until my life hung by a thread, for I could not endure to
see the old man beaten.  As you said just now, `you cannot wonder that I
found it impossible to submit,' but they taught me to submit.  Oh! they
are clever devils in their cruelty.  They saw that I cared not for my
life, but they also saw that I suffered through my father, and at last
when _I_ became rebellious they beat _him_.  _That_ tamed me, and taught
me submission.  The old one who lies there was a friend and comrade in
sorrow of the dear father who was set free a year ago.  I lay thinking
of them both to-night, and when I saw you two taking the first steps on
the weary path which I have trod so long--and have now, methinks,
well-nigh finished--I could not restrain myself.  But go--get all the
rest you can.  We cannot afford to waste the hours in talk.  Only be
sure, lad, that you take the Jew's advice--submit."

Without replying, the father and son crept back to their hard couch.
Had they been in more comfortable circumstances their thoughts might
have caused them to toss in feverish restlessness, but sheer muscular
exhaustion, acting on healthy frames, caused them to fall at once into a
deep slumber, from which they were rudely aroused next morning at four
o'clock to proceed to the Marina, where they were to be engaged that day
on certain repairs connected with the bulwarks of the harbour.

On the way down they were joined by an old man in a semi-clerical
costume, whose gentle demeanour appeared to modify even the cruel nature
of their savage guards, for they ceased to crack their whips at his
approach, and treated him with marked respect.

Some of the slaves appeared to brighten into new creatures on beholding
him, and spoke to him in earnest tones, addressing him as Padre
Giovanni.

The padre had a consoling word for all, and appeared to be well
acquainted with the various languages in which they spoke.

Approaching Francisco and his son he walked beside them.

"Thou hast arrived but recently, methinks?" he said in a tone of
commiseration, "and hast suffered much already."

"Ay, we have suffered somewhat," replied Francisco in an off-hand tone,
not feeling much inclined to be communicative just then.

In a few minutes, however, Giovanni had ingratiated himself with the
Sicilians to such an extent that they had related all their sad history
to him, and already began to feel as if he were an old friend, before
they had traversed the half-mile that lay between their nightly prison
and the harbour.

Arrived at their place of toil--the artificial neck connecting the
little light-house island with the mainland,--Mariano was ordered to
convey large masses of stone for the supply of a gang of slaves who were
building a new face to the breakwater, while his father was harnessed,
with another gang, to the cart that conveyed the stones to their
destination along a temporary tramway.

The severity of the labour consisted chiefly in the intense heat under
which it was performed, and in the unremitting nature of it.  It must
not be imagined, however, that there was not a single touch of humanity
in the breasts of the cruel slave-drivers.  Hard task-masters though
they undoubtedly were, some of them were wont to turn aside and look
another way when any of the poor slaves sat down for a few minutes,
overcome with exhaustion.

There was little opportunity allowed, however, for intercourse among the
unfortunates.  One or two who, judging from their faces, showed
sympathetic leanings towards each other, were immediately observed and
separated.  This had the effect of hardening some, while it drove others
to despair.

One of those whose spirit seemed to vacillate between despair and
ferocity was the young man already referred to as being an inhabitant of
Francisco's part of the Bagnio.  He was a Portuguese, named Castello.
In carrying the stones to and fro, he and Mariano had to pass each other
regularly every three or four minutes.  The latter observed, after a
time, that Castello glanced at him with peculiar intelligence.  At first
he was puzzled, but on next passing him he determined to give him a
similar look.  He did so.  Next time that Castello passed he said, in a
low tone, without looking up, and without in the least checking his
pace--

"Better to die than this!"

Mariano was taken by surprise, and at first made no reply, for he
recalled the man's advice of the previous night, but, on passing the
Portuguese again, he said, in the same low tone--

"Yes, much better!"

Curious to know what was meant by this--for the tones and glances of
Castello were emphatic--Mariano kept on the alert as he repassed his
comrade, expecting more.  He was not disappointed, though the nature of
the communication tended to increase his surprise.

"Fall and hurt yourself," whispered Castello, and passed on.

Much perplexed, Mariano tried to conceive some reason for such a strange
order, but failed.  He was, however, one of those rare spirits who have
the capacity, in certain circumstances, to sink themselves--not blindly,
but intelligently--and place implicit confidence in others.  Hastily
reviewing the _pros_ and _cons_ while laying his stone on the
breakwater, and feeling assured that no great harm could possibly come
of compliance, he gave a nod to his comrade in passing.

"I want to speak to you," muttered Castello briefly.

At once the reason flashed on Mariano's mind.  The delay consequent on
the fall would afford opportunity for a few more sentences than it was
possible to utter in passing.
